Whalen v. Roe
speaker="warren_e_burger" startTime="0.000" stopTime="19.957">
    Chief Justice Warren E. Burger 
    The judgment and opinion of the Court in Number 75-839, Whalen against Roe will be announced by Mr. Justice Stevens along with Number 75-853, United States Steel Corporation against Fortner Enterprises.
speaker="john_paul_stevens" startTime="19.957" stopTime="126.336">
    Justice John Paul Stevens 
    Whalen against Roe is a case involving the constitutionality of the New York law requiring that prescriptions for certain potentially dangerous drugs be prepared and triplicate on a special form which identifies the name and address of the patient. 
    After the prescription is dispense, one copy of the form is forwarded to the State Department of Health where the information on the form is recorded in a computer file. 
    The computer is intended to detect instances of potential drug abuse by identifying cases of over prescription. 
    Procedures were adopted to ensure the security of the prescription records and other than the in the course of a drug abuse investigation disclosure of patient’s identity is prohibited by law and made a crime. 
    The respondents in this case are a group of patients who had received some of the drugs and doctors who had prescribed them. 
    They brought this action in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York which held that the prescription reporting system needlessly invaded protected zones of privacy and was therefore unconstitutional. 
    Because our examination of the state system convinces us that New York has not exceeded its broad power to control the distribution of potentially dangerous drugs and because we are also convinced that as designed and administered, the system avoids an invasion of any constitutionally protected rights. 
    We unanimously reversed the District Court and hold that the New York law does not offend the constitution. 
    Mr. Justice Brennan and Mr. Justice Stewart, while joining the opinion of the Court, have each filed a brief concurring opinion.
