Continental T. V., Inc. v. GTE Sylvania Inc.
speaker="warren_e_burger" startTime="0.000" stopTime="11.901">
    Chief Justice Warren E. Burger 
    The judgment and opinion in 76-15, Continental T.V. against -- against GTE Sylvania, Incorporated will be announced by Mr. Justice Powell.
speaker="lewis_f_powell_jr" startTime="11.901" stopTime="174.425">
    Justice Lewis F. Powell, Jr. 
    The respondent, Sylvania Incorporated, manufactures and sells television sets. 
    In an effort to increase its declining sales, Sylvania adopted a franchise plan to sell directly to a more select group of franchise with retailers. 
    It limited the number of franchise. 
    Franchise is granted to any given area and required each franchisee to sell its Sylvania products only from locations at which it was franchised. 
    A dispute arose between Sylvania and one of the holders of the franchise, Continental T.V. in the litigation that followed, Continental contended that Sylvania had violated Section 1 of the Sherman Act by prohibiting the sale of Sylvania's TVs from other than specified locations. 
    In a case -- in case that was here in 1967, United States against Schwinn, this Court annunciated a per se rule of liability when manufacturers imposed certain vertical restrictions on wholesalers and retailers of its products. 
    The District Court in this case thought that the Schwinn per se rule was applicable and instructed the jury accordingly, a large verdict was rendered against Sylvania. 
    On appeal, the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit reversed finding a basis for the distinguishing the Schwinn rule. 
    Although, we think no adequate basis for a distinction exists, we have reexamined the decision in Schwinn and conclude today that it should be overruled. 
    The per se rule of illegality adopted for the first time in that case was a departure from antitrust principles generally applicable. 
    Restrictions similar to those used by Sylvania are widely employed in our free market economy. 
    The weight of scholarly and judicial authority supports their economic usefulness. 
    Accordingly, we affirmed the judgment of the Court of Appeals that we do so on different grounds. 
    Mr. Justice White filed an opinion concurring in the result. 
    Mr. Justice Brennan has filed a dissenting opinion in which Mr. Justice Marshall has joined. 
    Mr. Justice Rehnquist took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.
speaker="warren_e_burger" startTime="174.425" stopTime="177.813">
    Chief Justice Warren E. Burger 
    Thank you, Mr. Justice Powell.
