United Jewish Organizations of Williamsburgh, Inc. v. Carey
speaker="warren_e_burger" startTime="0.000" stopTime="13.228">
    Chief Justice Warren E. Burger 
    The judgment and opinion of the Court in 75-104, United Jewish Organizations Williamsburg against Kerry, the Governor of New York will be announced by Mr. Justice White.
speaker="byron_r_white" startTime="13.228" stopTime="131.287">
    Justice Byron R. White 
    This case is here from the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. 
    It involves a challenge to a New York reapportionment in so far as that statute applied to Kings County. 
    The challenge was and is that the -- that the -- that the State impermissibly used racial criteria in drawing certain district lines in the -- in the county. 
    The Court of Appeals rejected that challenge and we affirm that judgment by both of seven to one. 
    Mr. Justice Marshall takes no part in this case and Chief Justices filed the dissenting opinion. 
    I have filed an opinion which gives two essentially independent reasons for the -- for the judgment. 
    Neither reason commands a majority to the Court but there are five justices who joined one or the -- joined one or the other. 
    The first reason is that what the State did was authorized by the Voting Rights Act. 
    The second reason is that without any help in the Voting Rights Act, what New York did violated neither the Fourteenth nor the Fifteenth Amendment. 
    In the first reason, Mr. Justice Brennan, Mr. Justice Blackmun and Mr. Justice Stevens joined me. 
    And in the second reason, Mr. Justice Regnquist and Mr. Justice Stevens, in any event the judgment is affirmed. 
    Mr. Justice Brennan has filed a concurring opinion. 
    Mr. Justice Stewart has filed a -- an opinion concurring the judgment and he is joined by Mr. Justice Powell. 
    As I say, the Chief Justice has filed the same opinion.
speaker="warren_e_burger" startTime="131.287" stopTime="134.880">
    Chief Justice Warren E. Burger 
    Thank you Mr. Justice White.
