Forsyth County v. Nationalist Movement
speaker="william_h_rehnquist" startTime="0.000" stopTime="9.405">
    Chief Justice Rehnquist 
    The opinion of the court in No. 91-538, Forsyth County, Georgia versus the Nationalist Movement will be announced by Justice Blackmun.
speaker="harry_a_blackmun" startTime="9.405" stopTime="132.754">
    Justice Harry A. Blackmun 
    This case comes to us from the Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit. 
    The petitioner, as the Chief Justice has indicated, is a Georgia County. 
    It has an ordinance that requires permits for public demonstrations and declares that the cost of protecting participants exceeds the normal cost of law enforcement and therefore, every permit applicant is required to pay a fee up to $1,000. 
    It empowers the county administrator to adjust the amount of that fee. 
    The respondent, Nationalist Movement, proposed to demonstrate an opposition to the federal holiday to Martin Luther King, Jr. but the County attempted to impose its fee. 
    The respondent filed suit claiming that the ordinance violated the free speech guarantees of the First and Fourteenth Amendments. 
    The District Court denied relief but the Court of Appeals reversed. 
    It held that an ordinance which charges more than a nominal fee for using a public forum for a public issue speech is facially unconstitutional. 
    In an opinion filed with the Clerk today, we affirm that judgment and hold that the ordinance is facially invalid. 
    Government may impose a permit requirement if it does not delegate overly broad licensing discretion to an official and if it is not based on the content of the message. 
    Here, the decision how much to charge or whether to charge at all is left to the discretion of the administrator who is not required to rely on objective standards. 
    The ordinance, we feel, is content-based and neither the $1,000 cap nor some lower nominal cap could save the ordinance. 
    The Chief Justice has filed a dissenting opinion and is joined therein by Justice White, Justice Scalia, and Justice Thomas.
