Vacco v. Quill
speaker="william_h_rehnquist" startTime="0.000" stopTime="202.841">
    Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist 
    I have the opinions of the Court to announce in three cases. 
    The first of them is No. 95-1858, Vacco against Quill. 
    In New York, as in most states, it is a crime to assist a suicide but patients are allowed to refuse unwanted medical treatment even if that treatment is necessary to save their lives. 
    The question presented in this case is whether this distinction is so irrational that it violates the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. 
    The respondents here are New York doctors and they argue that refusing life-sustaining medical treatment is really the same thing as physician-assisted suicide and so it does violate Equal Protection Clause to permit one but not the other. 
    The District Court rejected this argument but the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit agreed with it. 
    Under the Equal Protection Clause, states must treat like cases alike but they treat unlike cases accordingly. 
    That is the proposition which we have followed for a long time and follow here and we therefore reverse the judgment of the Court of Appeals. 
    Respondents, as I have said, contented some terminally ill people, those who are on life support treatments system, that are treated differently from those who are not because the former may hasten death by ending treatment but the later may not hasten death through a physician assisted suicide. 
    This argument assumes though that ending life-saving treatment is the same thing as assisted suicide and we reject this assumption. 
    The distinction between assisting suicide and ending life-sustaining treatment is widely recognized and endorsed in the medical profession and in our legal tradition. 
    In our opinion, we focused primarily on two important differences between the two practices. 
    First, a patient who commits physician-assisted suicide is killed by the lethal drug provided by the doctor but when a patient refuses life-sustaining medical treatment, he dies from his underlying disease or condition. 
    Second, a physician who honors a patient’s request to end unwanted treatment does not necessarily intend that the patient dies. 
    He may only intend to respect his patient’s wishes and to seek doing futile or degrading things to the patient. 
    On the other hand, a doctor who assists a suicide must necessarily intend primarily that the patient be made dead. 
    The law has long distinguished between actions taken because of a give result from actions taken in spite of their intended but unforeseen consequences. 
    It is therefore, not surprising that many courts including this Court in our recent Cruzan opinion, and the overwhelming majority of legislators have drawn a clear line between assisting suicide and ending unwanted treatment. 
    We therefore reject respondent’s claim that the distinction between the two is irrational or arbitrary. 
    Logic and contemporary practice supports New York’s judgment that the two acts are different and the Constitution permits New York to treat them differently. 
    Justice O’Connor has filed a concurring opinion which Justices Ginsburg and Breyer joined in part; Justices Stevens, Souter, and Ginsburg and Breyer have filed opinions concurring in the judgment.
