Michael M. v. Superior Court of Sonoma County
speaker="warren_e_burger" startTime="0.000" stopTime="11.590">
    Chief Justice Warren E. Burger 
    The judgment of the Court in Number 79-1344, Michael M. against the Superior Court will be announced by Mr. Justice Rehnquist.
speaker="william_h_rehnquist" startTime="11.590" stopTime="136.121">
    Justice William H. Rehnquist 
    The opinion I announce is only that of a plurality of the Court but the judgment is that of a majority. 
    Petitioner was charged with violating California's statutory rape law. 
    That law makes it a crime for a man to have sexual intercourse with a woman who is not his wife and is under the age of 18 years. 
    Petitioner argued that the statute which punishes only men for the act of sexual intercourse violated the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution because it's unlawfully discriminated on the basis of sex. 
    The California Supreme Court upheld the constitutionality of the statute by a divided vote. 
    It reasoned that the statute was a permissible attempt due to teenage pregnancy. 
    We agree and affirm the decision of the California Supreme Court. 
    Not all laws which draw distinctions on the basis of sex are unconstitutional. 
    The California statutory rape law is designed to protect young women from the harmful effects of consequences of teenage pregnancy by prohibiting males from having sexual intercourse with young females. 
    We reject petitioner's contention that the constitution requires a State to make young woman as criminally liable as young men for the same conduct. 
    Women suffered disproportionally the consequences of teenage pregnancy and the State may constitutionally punish only males because they suffer few of the consequences of the -- of their acts. 
    Accordingly, the decision of the California Supreme Court is affirmed. 
    Justice Stewart, while joining this plurality opinion, he has filed a separate concurring opinion. 
    Justice Blackmun has filed an opinion in which he concurs in the judgment reached by the Court. 
    Justice Brennan has filed a dissenting in which Justices White and Marshall have joined. 
    Justice Stevens has also filed a dissenting opinion.
speaker="warren_e_burger" startTime="136.121" stopTime="137.737">
    Chief Justice Warren E. Burger 
    Thank you, Mr. Justice Rehnquist.
