Kerr v. United States Dist. Court for Northern Dist. of Cal.
speaker="warren_e_burger" startTime="0.000" stopTime="33.062">
    Chief Justice Warren E. Burger 
    The judgments and opinions of the Court in three cases: 74-1023, Kerr against the United States District Court; 74-1254, the Oil Chemical and Atomic Workers against Mobile Corporation; and 74-1471, TSC Industries against Northway Incorporated, will each be announced by Mr. Justice Marshall.
speaker="thurgood_marshall" startTime="33.062" stopTime="137.679">
    Justice Thurgood Marshall 
    The first case, the Kerr case, is here on writ of certiorari to the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. 
    The petitioners, state officials, are defendants in the class action challenging the manner in which prison terms and conditions and confinement are assessed at the State of California. 
    In response to motions for discovery filed by the plaintiffs, the District Court ordered petitioners to turn, over to the plaintiffs, a broad range of materials including personal files of the California Adult Authority and representative sample of prisoner files. 
    The District Court rejected petitioners arguments that they should not be required to turn over these documents without prior in camera review of the court to evaluate petitioners’ claims of irrelevancy and privilege. 
    Petitioners filed petitions for mandamus with the Court of Appeals asking that the discovery orders be vacated. 
    The petition was denied. 
    We granted certiorari and we now affirm. 
    An opinion on file with the clerk, we read the opinions of the Court of Appeals as allowing petitioners to have their requests for in camera review reconsidered by having the privilege asserted with greater specificity and by responsible state officials. 
    Given therefore that the Court of Appeals apparently presented the petitioners with a more adequate and moderated avenue to achieve precisely the relief they seek, in camera review of the documents, there is no need to invoke the extraordinary remedy of mandamus in this case. 
    Mr. Justice Stevens took no part in consideration or decision of this case.
