Imbler v. Pachtman
speaker="warren_e_burger" startTime="0.000" stopTime="9.323">
    Chief Justice Warren E. Burger 
    The judgments and opinion of the Court in 74-5435 Imbler v. Pachtman will be announced by Mr. Justice Powell.
speaker="lewis_f_powell_jr" startTime="9.323" stopTime="139.558">
    Justice Lewis F. Powell, Jr. 
    Here on certiorari to the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. 
    Sometime after petitioner's conviction of murder, the California prosecuting attorney, the respondent in this case, reveals a newly discovered evidence, relying in part on this evidence, the petition of ultimately one is released in Federal Habeas Corpus proceedings, he thereafter brought this section 1983 action, alleging that respondent in the prosecution had used false testimony and also has suppressed material evidence. 
    The Court of Appeals affirming the District Court, held that the prosecuting attorney is absolutely immune from a suit for damages under Section 1983 for action taken within the scope of his prosecutorial duties. 
    Under the common law a prosecutor alone has enjoyed complete immunity from suits for malicious prosecution. 
    It also has settled out that a judge is immune from Section 1983 damage claims, based on action taken within the scope of his judicial periods. 
    The same considerations of public policy that underlie these rules, apply to 1983 suite against a prosecutor. Although the immunity doctrine leaves the wrong criminal defender, without civil redress, a different rule would deceive a broader public interest. 
    Allying such suits would prevent the vigorous and fearless performance of the prosecutor's duties that is essential to the proper functioning of the criminal justice system. 
    We therefore affirm the judgment of the Court of Appeals. 
    Mr. Justice White has filed an opinion concurring in the judgment in which Mr. Justice Brennan and Mr. Justice Marshall had joined. 
    Mr. Justice Stevens took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.
