Hampton v. United States
speaker="william_h_rehnquist" startTime="0.000" stopTime="114.788">
    Justice William H. Rehnquist 
    In 74-5822 Hampton versus the United States, there is not a court opinion, I have written an opinion in which the Chief Justice and Mr. Justice White have joined, Mr. Justice Powell has written an opinion concurring in the judgment which Mr. Justice Blackmun has joined and the by virtue of the combined reasoning in those opinions the judgment of the Court of Appeals for the Eight circuit in this case is affirmed. 
    In the case, petitioner was convicted of selling heroin to federal undercover agents in St. Louis. 
    The government's evidence shows that petitioner had told Hutton that he needed money and knew where he could get some heroin. 
    Hutton who was an informant for the drug enforcement administration told petitioner that he could find a buyer, Hutton contacted the drug agents to setup a heroin sale and the second sale was arranged by the agents at the conclusion of which petitioner was arrested. 
    At trial petitioner claimed that the substance which he sold had been supplied by Hutton. 
    The petitioner requested a jury instruction to the effect that if the narcotics had been supplied by the informant, petitioner must be acquitted regardless of his predisposition to commit the crime. 
    The trial court refused this instruction and the court of appeals for the eight circuit affirmed relying on our opinion in United States against Russell, decided two years ago. 
    And we affirm the judgment of the court of appeals that Chief Justice Mr. Justice White had joined my opinion, Mr. Justice Powell has written a concurring opinion joined by Mr. Justice Blackmun, Mr. Justice Brennan who is joined by Mr. Justice Stewart and Mr. Justice Marshall has dissented, and Mr. Justice Stevens took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.
speaker="warren_e_burger" startTime="114.788" stopTime="116.434">
    Chief Justice Warren E. Burger 
    Thank you Mr. Justice Rehnquist.
