Simon v. Eastern Kentucky Welfare Rights Organization
speaker="warren_e_burger" startTime="0.000" stopTime="21.420">
    Chief Justice Warren E. Burger 
    The judgment and opinion of the Court in 75-1124 and 74-1110, Simon, the Secretary of Treasury against the Eastern Kentucky Welfare Rights Organizations and the related case will be announced by Mr. Justice Powell.
speaker="lewis_f_powell_jr" startTime="21.420" stopTime="138.810">
    Justice Lewis F. Powell, Jr. 
    These cases are here on certiorari to the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia. 
    The plaintiffs are indigents and their organizations. 
    They brought this class action against the Secretary of the Treasury and the Commissioner of the Internal Revenue. 
    They attack the validity of the IRS revenue ruling that extends favorable tax treatment to non profit hospitals that generally serve the community. 
    Ruling entitles donors to take tax deductions on gifts to these hospitals. 
    The ruling applies, even though indigents are not served. 
    The Court of Appeals sustained the validity of the tax ruling, but we do not reach the merits and we conclude that the plaintiffs did not allege a case or controversy under Article III of the Constitution. 
    Although they do allege denial of hospital services, because of their indigency they failed to name any hospital as a defendant, the only defendants are treasury officials. 
    Nor does it complaint aver that the hospitals that denied the service were dependent upon tax deductible contributions. 
    Thus it is wholly speculative, so far as the complaint shows, whether the tax rulings bears any relation to denial of the service. 
    We conclude, therefore, that respondents failed to establish their standing to bring this suit. 
    The judgment of the Court of Appeals is, therefore, vacated and the case remanded. 
    Mr. Justice Stewart filed a concurrent opinion. 
    Mr. Justice Brennan filed a dissenting opinion, concurring in the judgment in which Mr. Justice Marshall joins. 
    Mr. Justice Stevens took no part in the consideration of decisions of the case.
speaker="warren_e_burger" startTime="138.810" stopTime="141.033">
    Chief Justice Warren E. Burger 
    Thank you, Mr. Justice Powell.
