Carey v. Piphus
speaker="warren_e_burger" startTime="0.000" stopTime="6.805">
    Chief Justice Warren E. Burger 
    The judgment and opinion of the court in Carey against Piphus will be announced by Mr. Justice Powell.
speaker="lewis_f_powell_jr" startTime="6.805" stopTime="143.449">
    Justice Lewis F. Powell, Jr. 
    The respondents in this case are public school students who were suspended without a hearing. They sued petitioners, the school officials seeking damages under Section 1983 of Title 42 of the United States Code. 
    They contend that the denial of a hearing deprived them of that Fourteenth Amendment right to procedural due process. 
    The District Court agreed that there was a denial of procedural due process, but refused to award damages because respondents had proved no resulting injury. 
    The Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit reversed. 
    It held that respondents are entitled to recover substantial damages even if the suspensions were justified and even if respondents do not prove any injury other than the denial of a hearing. 
    Petitioners do not contest the holding of a constitutional right not to be suspended without notice of hearing. 
    They insist, however, that the Court of Appeals erred in it's holding of entitlement to substantial damages. 
    We agree with petitioners that the mere denial of notice and hearing without more cannot be the basis for the award of substantial damages in absence of any proof of injury. 
    We make clear in our opinion filed today that compensable injury may include mental and emotional distress provided a claim therefore is supported by competent evidence. 
    As there was no such evidence in this case, we hold that respondents are not entitled to recover substantial damages. 
    We also hold, however, that even where denial of procedural due process is not shown to have caused actual injury, the plaintiff is entitled to recover damages not to exceed $1. 
    Accordingly, we reverse the judgment of the Court of Appeals. 
    Mr. Justice Marshall concurs in the judgment. 
    Mr. Justice Blackmun took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.
speaker="warren_e_burger" startTime="143.449" stopTime="145.715">
    Chief Justice Warren E. Burger 
    Thank you, Mr. Justice Powell.
