Zablocki v. Redhail
speaker="warren_e_burger" startTime="0.000" stopTime="10.384">
    Chief Justice Warren E. Burger 
    The judgment and opinion of the court in 76-879, Zablocki against Redhail will be announced by Mr. Justice Marshall.
speaker="thurgood_marshall" startTime="10.384" stopTime="126.716">
    Justice Thurgood Marshall 
    This case is here on appeal from the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Wisconsin. 
    At issue is a Wisconsin statute which requires persons, subject to child support decrees, to obtain court permission before they get married. 
    Permission to marry can not be granted unless the applicant first submits proof of compliance with the support obligation and second demonstrates that the children will not become public charges. 
    Appellee, Redhail, was unable to satisfy either of these conditions with respect to an illegitimate child he had fathered when he was still in the high school. 
    After being denied a marriage license, he brought this class action charging the constitutionality of the statute. 
    The District Court held that the law had violated the Equal protection Clause of Fourteenth Amendment and enjoined its enforcement. 
    An opinion filed with the clerk, we affirm the judgment of the District Court. 
    We hold that the right to marry is of fundamental importance. 
    Since the classification created by the statute significantly interferes with the exercise of that right, we believe the Equal Protection Clause requires critical examination of the state interest, master the support of the law. 
    None of the State’s interest that have been suggested can withstand close scrutiny. 
    The state has numerous other names for enforcing support obligations and in many cases, such as appellee's, the statute simply prevents people from getting married, without benefiting the children in need of support. 
    We therefore conclude that the statute violates the Equal Protection Clause. 
    The Chief Justice has filed a concurring opinion; Mr. Justice Stewart, Mr. Justice Powell and Mr. Justice Stevens have filed opinions concurring in the judgment. 
    Mr. Justice Rehnquist has filed a dissenting opinion.
speaker="warren_e_burger" startTime="126.716" stopTime="128.416">
    Chief Justice Warren E. Burger 
    Thank you Mr. Justice Marshall.
