Butz v. Economou
speaker="warren_e_burger" startTime="0.000" stopTime="8.230">
    Chief Justice Warren E. Burger 
    The judgment and opinion of the court in 76-709, Butz against the Economou will be announced by Mr. Justice White.
speaker="byron_r_white" startTime="8.230" stopTime="136.059">
    Justice Byron R. White 
    This case is here on the certiorari, from Court of Appeals for the second circuit. 
    It involves a suit against various department of agricultural officials for they are having suspended the registration of a commodity futures trading company. 
    The officials sued ranged from the Secretary of Agriculture as down to the hearing officers and investigating officials that were involved in the suspension proceedings. 
    And the claims made against them included claims that they had deliberately violated the constitutional rights of the plaintiffs in the course of the suspension proceedings. 
    All of the officials claim that under Barr against Matteo, a case decided here some years ago. 
    That they were absolutely immune from damages liability. 
    The Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit however held that under cases decided here, since Bar, that the officials were not entitled to absolute immunity, but only to a qualified immunity. 
    We brought the case here and we have concluded that we don't agree with the Court of Appeals, but we don't agree with the petitioners either. 
    Some of these officials are entitled absolute immunity and some aren't. 
    We have filed an opinion which attempts to set down the considerations that go into deciding the degree of immunity that these officials may enjoy and the bottom line is that we make the judgment of the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit and remand the case for further proceedings consistent with the principles set down in the opinion. 
    But again all is not harmony here. 
    Mr. Justice Rehnquist has filed a dissenting opinion. 
    The Chief Justice, Mr. Justice Stewart and Mr. Justice Stevens have joined him.
speaker="warren_e_burger" startTime="136.059" stopTime="137.621">
    Chief Justice Warren E. Burger 
    Thank you Mr. Justice White.
