United States v. Sotelo
speaker="william_j_brennan_jr" startTime="0.000" stopTime="11.232">
    Justice William J. Brennan, Jr. 
    The opinion of the Court in number 76-1800, United States v. Sotelo will be announced by Mr. Justice Marshall.
speaker="thurgood_marshall" startTime="11.232" stopTime="127.630">
    Justice Thurgood Marshall 
    This case comes to us from the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit. 
    The question here is whether a corporate officer's liability to the Government for taxes with help from corporate employees is dischargable in bankruptcy. 
    The Internal Revenue Service filed a bankruptcy claim for taxes that respondent had collected from his corporation's employees, but had not paid over to the Government. 
    The Bankruptcy Court held that, respondent was liable for these taxes under the Internal Revenue Code and that this liability was made non-dischargeable by the Bankruptcy Act. 
    The District Court affirmed, but the Court of Appeals reversed. 
    It did so largely on the ground that respondent's liability is termed a penalty by the Internal Revenue Code whereas the Bankruptcy Act's non-dischargeability provision refers to taxes. 
    By an opinion filed today with the clerk, we reverse the Court of Appeals. 
    The penalty language of the court is not dispositive because of funds were unquestionably taxes when collected from the employees. 
    Congress was particularly concerned about situations in which corporations and their officer's would be relieved the liability in bankruptcy, while unincorporated small businessman will remain liable for the same type of debt. 
    Thus both the statutory language and the legislative history support our holding that respondent's liability is not dischargeable in bankruptcy. 
    Mr. Justice Rehnquist is probably dissenting opinion in which Mr. Justice Brennan, Mr. Justice Stewart and Mr. Justice Stevens joined.
speaker="william_j_brennan_jr" startTime="127.630" stopTime="129.748">
    Justice William J. Brennan, Jr. 
    Thank you, Mr. Justice Marshall.
