Board of Curators of the University of Missouri v. Horowitz
speaker="warren_e_burger" startTime="0.000" stopTime="13.259">
    Chief Justice Warren E. Burger 
    The judgments and opinion of the court in 76-695 Board of Curators of University of Missouri against Horowitz which will be announced by Mr. Justice Rehnquist.
speaker="william_h_rehnquist" startTime="13.259" stopTime="130.750">
    Justice William H. Rehnquist 
    In this the petitioner, the University of Missouri dismissed respondent, Charlotte Horowitz from its Medical School because of academic deficiencies. 
    The decision to dismissal was made by the medical school's council of evaluation after examining for academic performance over a two year period including one year of probation. 
    She sued petitioners alleging that the university had deprived her of procedural and substantive due process by dismissing her. 
    The District Court for the Western District of Missouri after a full trial concluded that she had been afforded all rights guaranteed her by the Fourteenth Amendment. 
    The Court of Appeals for the Eight Circuit to what she appealed disagreed holding that she had been denied procedural due process. 
    In an opinion filed today with the clerk of the court, we reverse the Court of Appeals, assuming that the respondent had a liberty of property interest and receded the medical school. 
    We concluded that the university gave her adequate procedural due process, before the dismissing. 
    Academic dismissals do not necessitate the same sort of procedures as due disciplinary dismissals. 
    We also conclude that she was not been deprived of substantive due process. 
    Even assuming that Federal Courts can review under narrow standards of the validity of an academic decision by a public educational institution. 
    The District Court expressly found that respondent's dismissal was not arbitrary or capricious. 
    Mr. Justice Powell while joining the opinion of the court. 
    He has also filed the concurring opinion. 
    Mr. Justice White has filed an opinion concurring in part and concurring in the judgment. 
    Mr. Justice Marshall has filed an opinion concurring in part and dissenting in part. 
    Mr. Justice Blackmun joined by Mr. Justice Brennan has filed an opinion concurring in part and dissenting in part.
speaker="warren_e_burger" startTime="130.750" stopTime="132.261">
    Chief Justice Warren E. Burger 
    Thank you Mr. Justice Rehnquist.
