National Society of Professional Engineers v. United States
speaker="warren_e_burger" startTime="0.000" stopTime="15.918">
    Chief Justice Warren E. Burger 
    The judgments and opinions of the Court in two cases, National Society of Professional Engineers against The United States, and City of Los Angeles against Manhart will each be announced by Mr. Justice Stevens.
speaker="john_paul_stevens" startTime="15.918" stopTime="116.423">
    Justice John Paul Stevens 
    In National Society of Professional Engineers against United States, the United States brought this civil antitrust suit against the Society, alleging that it's canon of ethics which prohibits members from submitting competitive bids for engineering services, suppressed competition in violation of Section 1 of the Sherman Act. 
    The Society defended on the ground that the canon was justified under the Rule of Reasons because it was adapted by members of a learned profession for the purpose of minimizing the risk, that competition would reduce inferior engineering work, endangering the public safety. 
    Without making any findings on the likelihood that competition would produce the dire consequences envisaged by petitioner, the District Court rejected this justification. 
    The Court of Appeals affirmed and we granted certiorari. 
    On its face the canon restrains trade within the meaning of the Section 1 of the Sherman Act. 
    Under the Rule of Reason the proper inquiry is whether the challenged agreement is one that promotes competition or one that suppresses competition. 
    The Rule does not supported a defense based on an argument that competition itself is unreasonable. 
    Accordingly for reasons stated in full in an opinion filed with the clerk, we affirm the judgment of the Court of Appeals. 
    Mr. Justice Blackmun filed an opinion in which Mr. Justice Rehnquist joined, concurring in part and concurring in the judgment. 
    The Chief Justice filed an opinion concurring in part and descending in part. 
    Mr. Justice Brennan took no part in the consideration or decision of the case.
