Eddings v. Oklahoma
speaker="warren_e_burger" startTime="0.000" stopTime="9.178">
    Chief Justice Warren E. Burger 
    The judgment and opinion of the Court in Eddings against Oklahoma will be announced by Justice Powell.
speaker="lewis_f_powell_jr" startTime="9.178" stopTime="192.903">
    Justice Lewis F. Powell, Jr. 
    This is a capital case here on certiorari to the Court of Appeals -- Court of Criminal Appeals of Oklahoma. 
    When Eddings was 16 years old, he shot and killed a state highway patrol officer at the time Eddings, with three younger juveniles, was running away from their Missouri homes. 
    He had a history of emotional problems, had been raised in a difficult family situation, and there was testimony that his mental and emotional development were at a level several years below his chronological age. 
    The Oklahoma capital punishment statute provides in the sentencing proceeding that evidence may be presented as to mitigating and aggravating circumstances. 
    Eddings' age was considered as a mitigating circumstance but this was viewed as outweighed by aggravating circumstances primarily the deliberate shooting of a state officer without provocation other than the fact that Eddings have been stopped on a state highway for erratic driving. 
    Although the trial court admitted evidence as to Eddings' family history and emotional instability, it declined to consider these as mitigating circumstances. 
    The Court of Criminal Appeals agreed and a sentence of death was affirmed. 
    In Lockett against Ohio, we held that the Eighth and Fourteenth Amendments require in a capital case that the sentencing authority not be precluded from considering, as a mitigating factor, any aspect of a defendant's character or record. 
    We think the Oklahoma Court's committed error in failing to consider Eddings' background in mitigation. 
    We therefore reverse the judgment insofar as it imposed the death penalty and remand the case for further proceedings. 
    This Court is not unaware of the extent of which minors engage increasingly in violent crime nor do we suggest an absence of legal responsibility where crime is committed by a minor. 
    We are concerned in this case only with the validity of the procedure by which the death sentence was imposed on an emotionally disturbed 16-year-old. 
    Justices Brennan and O'Connor have filed concurring opinions. 
    The Chief Justice has filed a dissenting opinion in which Justices White, Blackmun, and Rehnquist have joined.
speaker="warren_e_burger" startTime="192.903" stopTime="195.244">
    Chief Justice Warren E. Burger 
    Thank you Justice Powell.
