Widmar v. Vincent
speaker="warren_e_burger" startTime="0.000" stopTime="7.764">
    Chief Justice Warren E. Burger 
    The judgment and opinion of the Court in the case of Widmar against Vincent will be announced by Justice Powell.
speaker="lewis_f_powell_jr" startTime="7.764" stopTime="184.657">
    Justice Lewis F. Powell, Jr. 
    This case is here from the Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit. 
    It involves the validity of a regulation at the University of Missouri at Kansas City. 
    The University provides facilities for all student groups that wish to meet on its campus. 
    More than a hundred such groups, including a religious group, called Cornerstone, were officially recognized by the University. 
    The Cornerstone group was informed that it could no longer meet in University buildings. 
    The exclusion was based on a regulation that prohibited the use of its buildings or grounds for purposes of religious worship or religious teaching. 
    This suit was instituted by members of the Cornerstone group. 
    They allege a violation of their rights to free exercise of religion and freedom of speech under the First and Fourteenth Amendments to the Constitution. 
    The University defended on the ground that use of its facilities for religious worship or discussion would offend the Establishment Clause of the Constitution as well as the Missouri Constitution. 
    The District Court dismissed the suit agreeing with the University's position. 
    The Court of Appeals reversed. 
    In our opinion today, we agree with the Court of Appeals. 
    We hold that religious worship and discussion are forms of speech and association protected by the First Amendment. 
    A state university's regulation of speech must be content neutral absolutely showing of a compelling state interest that justifies discrimination. 
    And the University policy of neutrality as to the content of speech does not sponsor religion any more than the speech of other student groups. 
    A University's mission is education. 
    Our decision today is entirely consistent with the authority of a University to impose reasonable regulations compatible with that mission upon the use of its campus and facilities. 
    In this case however, the University created a public forum from which only religious groups were excluded. 
    The decision of the Court of Appeals is affirmed. 
    Justice Stevens has filed a separate opinion concurring in the judgment. 
    Justice White has filed a dissenting opinion.
speaker="warren_e_burger" startTime="184.657" stopTime="185.833">
    Chief Justice Warren E. Burger 
    Thank you, Justice Powell.
