Barclay's Bank, PLC v. Franchise Tax Bd. of California
speaker="william_h_rehnquist" startTime="0.000" stopTime="5.568">
    Chief Justice Rehnquist 
    The opinions of the Court in two cases will be announced by Justice Ginsburg. 
   
   
   
   Announcement of Justice Ginsburg
speaker="ruth_bader_ginsburg" startTime="5.568" stopTime="226.325">
    Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg 
    The first case I have to announce is Barclays Bank against Franchise Tax Board consolidated with Colgate-Palmolive against Franchise Tax Board. 
    These consolidated state tax refund cases concern the constitutionality of the worldwide combined reporting method, a method California used in the years at issue to determine the corporate franchise tax owed to the state by unitary multinational corporate group members doing business in California. 
    California's calculation started with the worldwide income of the group. 
    The State imposed its tax on a portion of that income, a portion equal to the arithmetic average of the proportions of worldwide payroll, property, and sales located within California. 
    Eleven years ago, in Container Corporation of America against Franchise Tax Board, this Court held that the California's scheme, as applied to a domestic-based multinational, did not violate the Constitutiom's Commerce Clause. 
    We adhere to that decision today and further hold that the constitutional assessment is not dispositively different as applied to foreign-based multinationals. 
    We, therefore, affirm the judgments of the California Court of Appeals which denied the tax refund claims of petitioner, Barclays, a foreign-based multinational and of petitioner Colgate, a domestic multinational. 
    Among rulings made and explained in the Court's opinion, the Court rejects Barclays' charges that California imposed inordinate compliance burdens on foreign-based enterprises and exposed such enterprises to constitutionally intolerable prospects of double taxation. 
    On the issue most energetically pressed by the parties, we hold that California's scheme did not prevent the Federal Government from speaking with one voice in international trade. 
    Congress holds the control reign. 
    It has the deciding voice in this area. 
    Congress has been informed for many years, both before and after this Court's decision, in Container Corporation of the displeasure of foreign governments with these five California or any other taxing jurisdiction of the worldwide combined reporting method. 
    Aware that worldwide combined reporting is out of accord with the transactional method used in our own federal income tax system and in the system of other developed countries, Congress has nevertheless failed to enact any of the newest measures purposed to bar use of the method challenged by Barclays and Colgate. 
    Executive Branch actions, statements, and print of the court filings do not supply the requisite federal directive proscribing states used of worldwide combined reporting for the regulatory authority is congresses to will. 
    Justice Blackmun who joins the Court's opinion has also filed a concurring opinion; Justice Scalia joins all but one part of the Court's multipart opinion and has filed a concurring opinion; Justice O'Connor, joined by Justice Thomas, has filed an opinion concurring in the judgment in Colgate?s case and dissenting in Barclays?.
