Tison v. Arizona
speaker="william_h_rehnquist" startTime="0.000" stopTime="8.374">
    Chief Justice Rehnquist 
    The opinion of the Court in No. 84-6075, Tison against Arizona will be announced by Justice O'Connor. 
   
   
   
   Announcement of Justice O'Connor
speaker="sandra_day_oconnor" startTime="8.374" stopTime="131.526">
    Justice Sandra Day O'Connor 
    This case comes to us on a certiorari to the Arizona Supreme Court. 
    The petitioners' helped plan and participated in a prison escape by their father Gary Tison and Randy Greenawalt both convicted murderers. 
    In the course of their flight from the prison, the petitioners have abducted, robbed and detained a family of four and watch their father and Greenawalt brutally murder their victims. 
    The petitioners were convicted of murder under Arizona's felony-murder statute and sentenced to death. 
    In postconviction proceedings they argued that they lacked the sufficiently culpable mental state to support constitutional imposition of the death sentences under this Court's holding in Enmund against Florida. 
    The Arizona Supreme Court found that although the petitioners did not specifically intend that the victims would die and did not plan the homicide or fire the shots that the requisite intent within the meaning of Enmund was established because they could have anticipated that life would or might be taken, in the course of their crimes. 
    In an opinion filed with the Clerk today the Court holds that the Eighth Amendment does not permit imposition of the death sentence upon the findings made by the Arizona Supreme Court. 
    But that the record in this case could support findings that the petitioners were both major participants in the crimes, giving rise to the application of the felony-murder rule, and that they acted with reckless indifference to the value of human life. 
    The Eighth Amendment does not forbid the execution of the felony-murder under those circumstances. 
    The death sentences upheld by the Arizona Supreme Court are therefore vacated and the cases are remanded for further proceedings. 
    Justice Brennan has filed a dissenting opinion in which Justice Marshall joins in its entirety and in parts 1 through 4A of which Justices Blackman and Stevens have joined.
