Milwaukee v. Cement Div., National Gypsum Co.
speaker="william_h_rehnquist" startTime="0.000" stopTime="11.696">
    Chief Justice Rehnquist 
    The opinion of the court order number 94-788, City of Milwaukee v. Cement Division, National Gypsum Company will be announced by Justice Stevens. 
   
   
   
   Announcement of Justice Stevens
speaker="john_paul_stevens" startTime="11.696" stopTime="114.338">
    Justice John Paul Stevens 
    This case arises out of American disaster that occurred on Christmas Eve in 1979, when a cargo ship sunk in Milwaukee harbor during a very severe winter storm. 
    The ship was worth about five million dollars and internally caused some damage to the wharf and the city and the owner of the ship got involved in litigation each accusing the other of negligence. 
    As result of a long trial and appeals and one thing and other, it was finally determined that the ship owner was primarily responsible for the loss. 
    Two-thirds of the responsibility requested on the ship owner and one-third on the city, which meant that when they figured out all the pluses and minuses, there was a net liability of about million-and-a-half dollars that the city owed to the ship owner. 
    The question we have to decide is whether or not pre judgment interest shall be paid on net amount for the period of time since the accident occurred. 
    The general rule in that time collision cases prejudgement interest is awarded, but there are exceptions for peculiar circumstances and the question in this case is whether either of the fact that the plaintiff which make the major recover was primarily responsible for the loss or the fact that there was the genuine dispute about liability constitutes a kind of exceptional circumstance that will justify a denial of prejudgement interest. 
    The Court of Appeals and the District Court held that no such interest should be awarded. 
    The Court of Appeals reversed and we agree with the views of the Court of Appeals and hold that prejudgment interest is appropriate. 
    Opinion is unanimous except for the fact that Justice Breyer took no part in the decision of the case.
