Allied-Bruce Terminix Co. v. Dobson
speaker="william_h_rehnquist" startTime="0.000" stopTime="11.678">
    Chief Justice Rehnquist 
    The opinion of the Court in number 93-1001 Allied-Bruce Terminix Companies versus Dobson will be announcement by Justice Breyer. 
   
   
   
   Announcement of Justice Breyer
speaker="stephen_g_breyer" startTime="11.678" stopTime="188.996">
    Justice Stephen G. Breyer 
    This case involves a local termite inspection contract made in Alabama. 
    The contract had a clause, requiring arbitration of disputes. 
    The respondent bought the house they found it swarming with termites. 
    So, they brought a law suit in State Court, and The Terminix asked for arbitration, but the Alabama Courts wouldn't send the case to arbitration because under Alabama law, arbitration clauses like this are invalid. 
    In section two of the Federal Arbitration Act, however, makes them valid. 
    So, the question was, does the federal law govern or the state law govern. 
    There were three parts to that question. 
    First part, the people who said the state law governs says that this court should overrule a case called Southland which held really that Federal Arbitration Act governs in state courts and these people said no, that shouldn't be so, the state law should govern in the state courts. 
    This court refuses to overrule Southland, and therefore, the Federal Arbitration Act is applicable in state courts. 
    The second question concerned the meaning of a word in that act, involving commerce, and if involving commerce has a broad interpretation, then this contract may fall within it. 
    We felt that it does have a broad interpretation, and the third question was whether or not the other words called a contract evidencing, like it has to evidence commerce and does that have a broad or a narrow interpretation, and basically we held that these words evidencing commerce have a broad interpretation, and basically what was an issue and functionally is some people argued that the broad interpretations might hurt consumers because a person who was a consumer who had a very large damage claim would not be able to get into the court. 
    They'd have to go to arbitration and we thought that probably the purpose of this statute thing to help people like consumers. 
    More often a broad interpretation would help them particularly if they had small claims where they want to go to arbitration rather than be in the state court. 
    So, on balance we felt that the broader interpretation of the words involving commerce was more consistent with the basic purposes of the Federal Arbitration Act and we held that, therefore, it governs. 
    Justice O'Conner thought not to dissent, but a concurring opinion and as well as joining the opinion. 
    There is that separate opinion and also Justice Scalia filed a dissent and Justice Thomas joined by Justice Scalia filed a dissent.
