Ambach v. Norwick
speaker="warren_e_burger" startTime="0.000" stopTime="5.315">
    Chief Justice Warren E. Burger 
    Mr. Justice Powell has two opinions which he will announce.
speaker="lewis_f_powell_jr" startTime="5.315" stopTime="158.412">
    Justice Lewis F. Powell, Jr. 
    The first is in 76-808, Ambach against Norwick. 
    This case presents the question whether New York may impose a citizenship requirement upon its public school teachers. 
    A three-judge District Court in the Southern District of New York held that this requirement excluding the resident aliens violated the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. 
    Although the exclusion of aliens from fields of private employment generally serves no legitimate state interest. 
    The constitution and our decisions have made clear that states properly may limit participation of aliens in at least certain governmental functions. 
    Only last term we upheld New York's citizenship requirement with respect to police officers because of the important role of the police function in the exercise of governmental authority. 
    For essentially the same reasons we think teaching in the public schools also constitutes a governmental function that may be confined to citizens. 
    Teachers, both through the instruction they give and the example they set shape the basic attitudes of children toward our democratic form of government, the political processes of this country and the obligations of American citizenship. 
    We think a state rationally may decide that only those persons who have made an unequivocal legal commitment to our form of government through the tie of citizenship should be entrusted with this important responsibility. 
    Accordingly, we reverse the decision of the court below. 
    We also note that the resident aliens who brought this suit could have qualified to teach under the New York law by applying for United States citizenship. 
    They were eligible and free to do this but preferred to retain their citizenship allegiance to other countries. 
    Mr. Justice Blackmun has filed a dissenting opinion in which Mr. Justice Brennan, Mr. Justice Marshall, and Mr. Justice Stevens have joined.
