United States v. Bean
speaker="john_paul_stevens" startTime="0.000" stopTime="4.650">
    Justice Stevens 
    Justice Thomas.
speaker="clarence_thomas" startTime="4.650" stopTime="156.474">
    Justice Clarence Thomas 
    I have the opinion of the Court in United States versus Bean, No. 01-704. 
    This case comes to use on a writ of certiorari to the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. 
    18 U.S.C. Section 922(g)(1) prohibits a person convicted of a felony from possessing firearms. 
    18 U.S.C. Section 925(c) authorizes the Secretary of Treasury to grant relief from that prohibition if it is established to his satisfaction that certain preconditions are met. 
    An applicant may seek judicial review from the United States District Court if his application is denied by the Secretary. 
    Since 1992, however, an appropriations bar has prevented the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms to which the Secretary has delegated authority to act on Section 925(c) applications from using funds appropriated herein to investigate or act upon applications for relief from federal firearms disabilities under 18 U.S.C. 925(c). 
    ATF upon receipt of respondent's petition returned it explaining that the appropriations bar prevents ATF from acting on it. 
    Respondent contends that ATF's failure to act constitutes a denial within the meaning of 925(c) and that therefore District Courts have jurisdiction to review such action. 
    The lower courts agreed with the respondent. 
    In an opinion filed with the Clerk today, we reversed. 
    Inaction by ATF does not amount to denial within the meaning of Section 925(c). 
    The text of Section 925(c) and the procedure it sets out for seeking relief may clear that an actual decision by ATF on the application is a prerequisite to judicial review and that mere inaction by ATF does not invest a District Court with independent jurisdiction to act on the application. 
    The opinion of the court is unanimous.
