Green Tree Financial Corporation v. Bazzle
speaker="william_h_rehnquist" startTime="0.000" stopTime="9.488">
    Chief Justice Rehnquist 
    The opinion of the Court in No. 02-634, Green Tree Financial Corporation versus Bazzle will be announced by Justice Breyer.
speaker="stephen_g_breyer" startTime="9.488" stopTime="113.293">
    Justice Stephen G. Breyer 
    I shall be announcing the judgment of the Court in this case and an opinion in which I am joined by Justice Scalia, Justice Souter, and Justice Ginsburg. 
    The case is about arbitration clauses in contracts that Green Tree, which is a commercial lender made with many of its customers. 
    The South Carolina Supreme Court held two things: first, it held that the contracts were silent on the question of whether the parties had agreed that arbitration could take the form of class arbitration rather like a class action where the named customer brings a suit representing a host of others. 
    Then it held that in no circumstances were the contracts are silent. 
    The arbitration can proceed as class arbitration. 
    We granted certiorari to determine whether the state court's decision is consistent with the Federal Arbitration Act. 
    Now, four of us, anyway got stuck at the threshhold. 
    We thought that the questions, whether the contracts are silent about class arbitration or whether instead as Green Tree said, they forbid it, is a threshhold question, and we think that was not really a question for the court, that was a question for the arbitrator. 
    So, we conclude that on that question, the arbitrator should have decided it independently but he did not. 
    So, we remand the case so that he can. 
    Now, the judgment of the Court of the South Carolina is therefore vacated, and it is remanded after further proceedings. 
    Justice Stevens has filed an opinion concurring in the judgment and dissenting in part. 
    The Chief Justice has filed a dissenting opinion in which Justice O'Connor and Justice Kennedy joined and Justice Thomas has filed a dissenting opinion.
