California v. Acevedo
speaker="william_h_rehnquist" startTime="0.000" stopTime="5.724">
    Chief Justice Rehnquist 
    The opinions of the Court in two cases will be announced by Justice Blackmun.
speaker="harry_a_blackmun" startTime="5.724" stopTime="130.612">
    Justice Harry A. Blackmun 
    The first case is No. 89-1690, California against Acevedo. 
    The case comes to us from the Court of Appeals of California and it is another one having to do with the validity of an automobile search. 
    The police observed the respondent leaving an apartment was known to contain marijuana with a brown paper bag, the usual brown paper back, and he placed the bag in the trunk of his car, the police stopped the car, opened the trunk and the bag and found marijuana. 
    The respondent's motion to suppress the drug was denied and he then pleaded guilty. 
    California Court of Appeals held that the marijuana should have been suppressed. 
    It found the officers had probable cause to believe that the bag contained drugs, but lacked probable cause to suspect that the car, itself, otherwise contained contraband. 
    And it concluded that the paper bag could not be opened without a warrant. 
    In an opinion filed today, we reverse that judgment. 
    In a search extending only to a container within an automobile, the police may search the container without a warrant where they have probable cause to believe that it holds contraband. 
    In the case of Carroll against the United States, decided in 1925, provides one rule to govern all automobile searches. 
    The doctrine of stare decisis does not preclude the court from eliminating the warrant required in the case of Arkansas against Sanders decided in 1979 which we feel affords minimal protection to a privacy interest. 
    This holding does not extend the carroll doctrine nor does it broaden the scope of permissible automobile searches. 
    Justice Scalia has filed an opinion concurring in the judgment. 
    Justice White has filed a dissenting statement and would affirm the judgment below. 
    Justice Stevens has filed a dissenting opinion and is joined therein by Justice Marshall.
