Arizona v. Youngblood
speaker="william_h_rehnquist" startTime="0.000" stopTime="116.191">
    Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist 
    I have the opinion of the Court to announce in number 86-1904, Arizona against Youngblood. 
    In this case, a 10-year-old boy was molested and sodomized by a middle-aged man for one-and-a-half hours. 
    After the assault, the boy was taken to a hospital where a physician used a sexual assault kit to collect evidence from the boy's body. 
    The police also collected the boy's clothing which they failed to refrigerate. 
    A police criminologist later performed some tests on this evidence but he was unable to obtain information about the identity of the boy's assailant. 
    At trial, expert witnesses testified that respondent might have been completely exhaunerated by timely performance of test with properly preserved evidence. 
    Respondent was convicted of child-molestation, sexual assault, and kidnapping in an Arizona State Court. 
    The Arizona Court of Appeals reversed the conviction on the ground that the state had breach a constitutional duty to preserve the evidence from the victim's body and clothing. 
    In an opinion filed with the clerk today, we hold that unless a criminal defendant can show bad faith on the part of the police. 
    Failure to preserve potentially useful evidence does not constitute a denial of due process of law. 
    Here, the police's failure to refrigerate the victim's clothing and to perform certain tests on the evidence can at worst be described as negligent. 
    None of this information was concealed from respondent at trial and the evidence, such as it was, was made available to respondent's expert who declined to perform any tests on it. 
    The Arizona Court of Appeals noted in its opinion that there was no suggestion of bad faith on the part of the police. 
    It follows, therefore, that there was no violation of the due process clause and the judgment of the Arizona Court of Appeals is reversed. 
    Justice Stevens has filed an opinion concurring in the judgment. 
    Justice Blackmun has filed a dissenting opinion in which Justices Brennan and Marshall have joined.
