Bonito Boats, Inc. v. Thunder Craft Boats, Inc.
speaker="sandra_day_oconnor" startTime="0.000" stopTime="159.989">
    Justice Sandra Day O'Connor 
    The third opinion for announcement by me today is Bonito Boats, Inc. verus Thunder Craft Boats, Inc. number 87-1346 and this case comes to us on certiorari to the Supreme Court of Florida. 
    In 1976, petitioner Bonito Boats a Florida corporation developed and marketed a boat hull design which enjoyed great commercial success. 
    The petitioner did not seek federal patent protection for the design or for the utilitarian aspects of the boat hull or for the process by which the boats were produced. 
    In 1983, after the hull design had been on sale for some six years, the Florida legislator passed a statute making it unlawful to use the direct molding process to duplicate any manufactured boat hull or the component parts of it without permission of the original manufacturer. 
    Shortly after the enactment of the Florida law, the petitioner brought suit against the Thunder Craft Boats, a Tennessee corporation, for duplicating petitioner's boat hulls in violation of the Florida statute. 
    The petitioner sought damages, injunctive relief and attorney's fees for the illegal copying. 
    The Florida trial court dismissed the complaint. 
    The Florida Court of Appeals and the Supreme Court of Florida affirmed the dismissal finding that the Florida statute impermissibly interfered with the public use of unpatented designs. 
    We then granted certiorari to resolve a conflict between the judgment of the Florida Courts and a decision of the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit holding that a similar California law did not conflict with the federal patent scheme. 
    In a unanimous opinion filed with the clerk today, we affirm the judgment of the Florida Supreme Court. 
    The Florida statute creates patent like rights in design and utilitarian concepts which are left unprotected by the federal patent law. 
    The statute thus, conflicts with the strong federal policy embodied in the patent laws that unpatented items, in general circulation are the tools of creation itself, free for all members of the public to exploit. 
    The substantial protection against duplication offered by the Florida law could divert inventive effort away from the requirements of patentability established by congress over the last 200 years. 
    We hold then that the Florida law is pre-empted by the Supremacy Clause of the Federal Constitution.
