Barber v. Thomas
speaker="john_g_roberts_jr" startTime="0.000" stopTime="6.850">
    Chief Justice John G. Roberts, Jr. 
    Justice Breyer has our opinion this morning in case 09-5201, Barber versus Thomas.
speaker="stephen_g_breyer" startTime="6.850" stopTime="133.956">
    Justice Stephen G. Breyer 
    A Federal Sentencing Law provides “that a prisoner serving a term of imprisonment of more than one year, may receive credit towards the service of the prisoner's sentence of up to 54 days at the end of each year of the prisoner's term of imprisonment” based on a determination by the Federal Bureau of Prisons that the prisoner has exhibited good behavior “during that year.” 
    This credit operates as a reward for good behavior while in prison and for that reason it is generally referred to as a good time credit. 
    Each day of good time credit that a prisoner earns up to 54 a year is one less day that he will spend in prison. 
    At issue in this case is whether the method used by the Bureau of Prisons to calculate good time credit is lawful? 
    Under the Bureau of Prisons method, a prisoner would have his good time calculated at the end of each year he served except for the last year, which he does not serve in full. 
    For that last year the Bureau of Prisons would calculate a proportionate amount of good time. 
    The petitioners here are two prisoners who challenge the Bureau's method as unlawful. 
    They propose a simpler method. 
    A prisoner sentenced up to 10 years, to 10 years for example would receive up to 10 times 54 or 540 days good time credit. 
    The Bureau's more complex method which depends upon the time the prisoner actually serves in prison would give that prisoner up to 470 days good time credit not 540 days. 
    Ultimately we conclude that the Bureau's method is right. 
    Their method follows the statute and we think the prisoner's method does not. 
    Thus we must reject petitioner's simpler method. 
    We explained all this in some detail in our opinion which the mathematically inclined may wish to read.[Laughter] 
    Justice Kennedy has filed the dissenting opinion in which Justice Stevens and Justice Ginsburg have joined.
