Kucana v. Holder
speaker="john_g_roberts_jr" startTime="0.000" stopTime="7.021">
    Chief Justice John G. Roberts, Jr. 
    Justice Ginsburg has our opinion this morning in case 08-911, Kucana versus Holder.
speaker="ruth_bader_ginsburg" startTime="7.021" stopTime="215.197">
    Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg 
    The motion to reopen removal proceedings formally called deportation proceedings is an important safeguard to ensure the juxtaposition of immigration matters. 
    Federal courts have reviewed administrative decisions denying reopening of immigration proceedings since at least 1916. 
    This case concerns access to that check on executive determinations. 
    The petitioner, a citizen of Albania, moved to reopen his removal proceedings alleging new evidence in support of his plea for asylum. 
    An immigration judge denied the motion and the Board of Immigration Appeals sustained that ruling. 
    Petitioner sought judicial review in the US Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit. 
    The court dismissed his petition holding that it lacked jurisdiction to review the board's determination. 
    For that ruling the court relied on a statute barring judicial review of certain administrative actions, those specified as discretionary under the relevant part of the Immigration and Nationality Act. 
    Although nothing in that act specifies the board's discretion to rule on reopening motions, a regulation published by the Attorney General does so. 
    The Seventh Circuit held that the Attorney General's regulation suffices to insulate the board's decision from court oversight. 
    We reverse the Court of Appeals judgment and hold that Federal courts retain jurisdiction to review reopening denials in immigration matters. 
    That is so we explain because Congress reserved to itself and did not vest in the Attorney General authority to bar judicial review. 
    Examination of the relevant statute’s text and context leads us to this determination. 
    We note that other similar limitations of judicial review placed in the statute just before and just after the provision in question depends solely on statutory provisions not on any administrative regulation to define the scope of the limitation. 
    Our reading of the controlling provision keeps it in harmony with its surrounding provisions. 
    We also take into account the character of many of the immigration decisions Congress has expressly shielded from judicial review. 
    They are in the main substantive decisions about an alien’s plea to remain in the USA, decisions made by the executive as a matter of grace. 
    Decisions on reopening motions in contrast are not matters of grace, they are adjunct rulings concerned primarily with procedural fairness. 
    Finally two basic considerations strongly support our determination. 
    First, separation of powers concerns appreciation that Federal Court jurisdiction is controlled by Congress not by the executive and second the familiar presumption favoring judicial review of administrative actions. 
    Justice Alito has filed an opinion concurring in the judgment.
