Brown v. Socialist Workers '74 Campaign Comm. (Ohio)
speaker="warren_e_burger" startTime="0.000" stopTime="12.521">
    Chief Justice Warren E. Burger 
    The judgments and opinion of the Court in Brown against the Socialist Workers Campaign Committee of Ohio will be announced by Justice Marshall.
speaker="thurgood_marshall" startTime="12.521" stopTime="135.613">
    Justice Thurgood Marshall 
    This case is here on direct appeal from a three-judge District Court for the Southern District of Ohio. 
    The Court there held that certain campaign disclosure provisions of the Ohio Campaign Expense Reporting Law cannot be constitutionally apply to the Ohio Socialist Workers Party. 
    The Ohio statute requires every political party to report the names and addresses of campaign contributors and recipients of campaign expenditures. 
    The District Court concluded that if appellees were compelled to identify all contributors and recipients, those identified might be subject to public harassment and hostility. 
    Accordingly, that Court enjoined the enforcement of the disclosure provisions against the appellees. 
    We hold that the Ohio statute cannot be constitutionally applied to the Socialist Workers Party. 
    The First Amendment protects against to compel disclosure of political association and beliefs. 
    In our view, a State may not compel a minor party to disclose the identities of campaign contributors, all recipients of campaign expenditures. 
    If there is a reasonable probability that a disclosure will subject them -- subject those identified to threats, harassment, or reprisals, such a reasonable probability was demonstrated by the evidence of governmental and private hostility toward appellees. 
    Accordingly, the judgment of the District Court is affirmed. 
    Justice Blackmun has filed an opinion concurring in part and concurring in the judgment. 
    Justice O'Connor joined by Justice Rehnquist and Justice Stevens has filed an opinion concurring in part and dissenting in part.
speaker="warren_e_burger" startTime="135.613" stopTime="137.457">
    Chief Justice Warren E. Burger 
    Thank you, Justice Marshall.
