Falls City Industries, Inc. v. Vanco Beverage, Inc.
speaker="warren_e_burger" startTime="0.000" stopTime="8.713">
    Chief Justice Warren E. Burger 
    The judgment and opinion of the Court in Falls City Industries against Vanco Beverage will be announced by Justice Blackmun.
speaker="harry_a_blackmun" startTime="8.713" stopTime="155.285">
    Justice Harry A. Blackmun 
    Well, this case comes to us by way of certiorari to the -- to the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit. 
    It's an antitrust case that centers in Section 2(a) of the Clayton Act as amended by the Robinson-Patman Act. 
    The case doesn't lend itself very well to description from the bench. 
    I think it suffices to say that the petitioner is a Louisville Kentucky brewer which sold its beer to the respondent, the sole wholesale distributor for petitioner's beer in Evansville and Vanderburgh County, Indiana, at a higher price than the petitioner charged its only distributor in Henderson County, Kentucky, just across the Ohio River. 
    Under Indiana law, brewers were required to sell to all Indiana wholesalers at the same price and wholesalers were prohibited from selling to out-of-state retailers and retailers could not purchase beer from out-of-state wholesalers. 
    The respondent distributor sued the brewer, alleging price discrimination that violated the Act and the trial court held that the distributor had established a prima facia case. 
    That court rejected the brewer's defense that it was merely meeting competition in Kentucky and hence was immune from liability and the Court of Appeals affirmed. 
    In an opinion filed with the clerk today, we reverse that judgment and remand the case for further proceedings. 
    We do hold that competitive injury was shown. 
    The defense of meeting competition, however, is not defeated on the theory that the price difference resulted from increases in Indiana rather than decreases in Kentucky. 
    The standard governing the requirement of a good faith response is the standard of prudent businessman, responding fairly to what he reasonably believes is a situation of competitive necessity. 
    The trial court did not address the crucial question whether the Kentucky prices remained lower than the Indiana prices in response to competitor's prices in Kentucky. 
    And for that reason we reverse and remand. 
    The decision is by unanimous court.
speaker="warren_e_burger" startTime="155.285" stopTime="156.702">
    Chief Justice Warren E. Burger 
    Thank you Justice Blackmun.
