United States v. Knotts
speaker="warren_e_burger" startTime="0.000" stopTime="6.784">
    Chief Justice Warren E. Burger 
    Justice Rehnquist will announce the judgment and opinion of the Court in United States against Knotts.
speaker="william_h_rehnquist" startTime="6.784" stopTime="147.653">
    Justice William H. Rehnquist 
    This case is here on writ of certiorari to the Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit that involves beepers. 
    A beeper is a radio transmitter which emits periodic signals that can be picked up by a radio receiver. 
    In this case, Minnesota police officers arranged with a seller of chemicals to install a beeper inside a five-gallon container of chloroform. 
    Chloroform can be used in manufacturing illegal drugs. 
    After the container was sold, the police followed its movements. 
    It changed hands once but by maintaining contact through visual surveillance and monitoring the beeper signal, the police were able to track the chloroform container across the St. Croix River and then to Wisconsin to respondent's secluded cabin near Shell Lake, Wisconsin. 
    A subsequent search of the cabin pursuant to a warrant revealed an illegal drug traffic. 
    We've been asked to decide whether the monitoring of the beeper violated any reasonable expectation of privacy held by respondent thus running afoul of the Fourth Amendment. 
    We have concluded that it did not. 
    The surveillance in this case was directed to the following of an automobile on public streets and highways and to its departure from the highway onto respondent's privately owned premises. 
    A person travelling on public thoroughfares could not reasonably expect that his movements on those thoroughfares and his departure from them will not be observed by others. 
    Everything learned by the police officers in this case could have been learned by visual surveillance from public places. 
    The fact that the officers augmented their sensory facilities with such enhancement as science and technology afford does not require any different constitutional analysis. 
    Because of our view that monitoring the beeper signals did not invade any legitimate expectation of privacy on respondent's part, we have concluded that there was neither a search nor a seizure within the meaning of the Fourth Amendment and we reverse the judgment of the Court of Appeals. 
    Justice Brennan has filed an opinion concurring in the judgment which Justice Marshall has joined. 
    Justice Blackmun has filed an opinion concurring in the judgment which Justice Brennan, Justice Marshall, and Justice Stevens joined. 
    Justice Stevens has filed an opinion concurring in the judgment which Justice Brennan and Justice Marshall joined.
speaker="warren_e_burger" startTime="147.653" stopTime="148.923">
    Chief Justice Warren E. Burger 
    Thank you Justice Rehnquist.
