Lehr v. Robertson
speaker="warren_e_burger" startTime="0.000" stopTime="19.633">
    Chief Justice Warren E. Burger 
    The judgment and opinion of the Court in Lehr against Robertson will be announced by Justice Stevenson -- Justice Stevens. 
    End of the term syndrome.
speaker="john_paul_stevens" startTime="19.633" stopTime="131.331">
    Justice John Paul Stevens 
    This case comes to us from the Court of Appeals of the State of New York. 
    It involves a constitutionality of the New York adoption statute and more particularly the validity of an adoption order entered pertaining to a child who was born out of wedlock and adopted at approximately age of two years. 
    The putative father of the child claims that the adoption is invalid and that the statute pursuant to which the adoption was ordered is itself invalid because it did not provide that he would receive notice and an opportunity to be heard before the adoption order was entered. 
    The New York adoption statute provides for notice to several categories of fathers, those whose names appear on the birth certificate, those who lived with the child and the mother, those who were married to the mother within six months of the birth and most relevant in this case, those who have had their names placed on what is known as the putative father registry which is a registry which the father need only send a postcard in to have his name on the registry and then in the event of an adoption of the child, he's automatically guaranteed notice. 
    The putative father in this case did none of these things and had established no meaningful relationship of any kind with the child during the two years -- the first two years of her life and was not -- had not lived with the mother during that period of time. 
    For reasons that we set out in greater detail in the opinion we hold that he was not -- had not formed the kind of relationship with the child that would entitle him to notice and therefore that the adoption order is valid and that the New York statutory procedure as applied in this case is valid. 
    Justice White has filed a dissenting opinion which is joined by Justice Marshall and Justice Blackmun.
speaker="warren_e_burger" startTime="131.331" stopTime="132.571">
    Chief Justice Warren E. Burger 
    Thank you Justice Stevens.
