Local 926, International Union of Operating Engineers, AFL-CIO v. Jones
speaker="warren_e_burger" startTime="0.000" stopTime="12.923">
    Chief Justice Warren E. Burger 
    The judgment and opinion of the Court in Local 926 of the Operating Engineers Union against Jones will be announced by Justice White.
speaker="byron_r_white" startTime="12.923" stopTime="119.097">
    Justice Byron R. White 
    In this case, the appellant Jones brought suit in a Georgia state court against the appellee union which had a collective bargaining contract with the Georgia Power Company. 
    The -- Jones alleged that the union had coerced the -- Georgia Power into discharging him from his job as a supervisor and thus has caused the company to breach its contract with him. 
    The union moved to dismissed claiming that the suit could not go forward because the conduct with which it was charged was an arguable unfair labor practice under the National Labor Relations Act and was therefore within the exclusive jurisdiction of the National Labor Relations Board. 
    The trial court dismissed the case but the Georgia Court of Appeals reversed holding that the suit could go forward because among other things, it thought the conduct was not an arguable unfair practice. 
    We postponed jurisdiction to the merits and we now hold that the first of the appeal is improper but treating the state -- the statement of jurisdiction as a petition for certiorari, we grant the petition and go on to reverse the judgment of the Georgia court for the reasons that we stated at some length in an opinion on file with the Court. 
    In our view the conduct that is involved in this suit was an arguable unfair practice and under our existing cases was within the exclusive jurisdiction of the Board. 
    Justice Rehnquist has filed a dissenting opinion and Justices Powell and O'Connor have joined that opinion.
speaker="warren_e_burger" startTime="119.097" stopTime="120.159">
    Chief Justice Warren E. Burger 
    Thank you Justice White.
