Van de Kamp v. Goldstein
speaker="john_g_roberts_jr" startTime="0.000" stopTime="7.985">
    Chief Justice John G. Roberts, Jr. 
    Justice Breyer has our opinion this morning in case 07-854, Van de Kamp versus Goldstein.
speaker="stephen_g_breyer" startTime="7.985" stopTime="180.888">
    Justice Stephen G. Breyer 
    Thomas Goldstein was convicted of murdering at state court, but after many years of imprisonment, he was released. 
    When federal court's found that his trial was infected with an important prosecutorial error, namely, the prosecution failed to turn over to the defense, information would have shown that an informant who was testifying was not reliable. 
    After he was released, Goldstein sued the prosecution seeking damages under federal civil rights laws. 
    But he didn't sue the prosecutor's who prosecuted him with the trial, rather he sued their supervisors. 
    And this was probably for a good reason, the reason he -- he probably didn't sue the trial prosecutors is that he couldn't because prosecutors enjoy an absolute immunity in such suits, whether they make mistakes or not. 
    The reason for that immunity, which is well established in the law, was explained by Judge Learned Hand many years ago. 
    He said it has been thought in the end better to leave unredressed the wrongs done by dishonest officers than to subject those who try to do their duty to the constant dread of retaliation. 
    Now, the question before us here in this case is whether the same analysis and same conclusion, namely, absolute immunity also applies to the prosecutors who administer the office as well as to those who tried the case. 
    We conclude that the same analysis and conclusion do apply in the circumstances present here. 
    Now, what are those? 
    Well, Goldstein's claim that the prosecution, his claim is that the prosecution's administrative failures here consisted of inadequate supervising, inadequate training and a failure to set up a proper information system that would have kept track of the government informants. 
    Now, those three fault, all are faults that relate directly to the work and performance of prosecutor's at individual trials. 
    In addition, a specific prosecutorial error at Goldstein's individual trial was an essential element of Goldstein's claim. 
    He couldn't win without showing that. 
    Now, given these circumstances, we find that all of the considerations that support absolute immunity in the context of a trial applied to this case in equal force. 
    And we consequently hold that the supervising prosecutors here enjoy absolute immunity. 
    We explain all these further in our opinion if you'd like more explanation. 
    We reverse a Ninth Circuit determination to the contrary. 
    We remand the case. 
    The decision is unanimous.
