Pacific Bell Telephone Co. v. LinkLine Communications
speaker="john_g_roberts_jr" startTime="0.000" stopTime="229.584">
    Chief Justice John G. Roberts, Jr. 
    I have our opinion this morning in case 07-512, Pacific Bell Telephone versus Linkline Communications. 
    This is a case about DSL service. 
    DSL service is a method of connecting to the internet at high speed over telephone lines. 
    The defendants are a group of companies that have gone through corporate reorganizations and name changes while the case was pending but we'll call them AT&amp;T. 
    The Federal Communications Commission requires AT&amp;T to sell wholesale DSL services to independent firms. 
    The plaintiffs in this case are such independent internet service providers and they compete against AT&amp;T in the retail DSL market in California. 
    These companies have to release at least telephone lines from AT&amp;T as otherwise they wouldn't be able to provide the service. 
    Now, those plaintiffs brought suite under Section 2 of the Sherman Act arguing that AT&amp;T had unlawfully squeezed their profit margins by charging them a high price for wholesale DSL service, and at the same time, setting their own prize too low for the retail service. 
    The plaintiffs argued that this maneuver put them at an unfair disadvantage and allowed AT&amp;T to maintain a monopoly over the DSL market. 
    AT&amp;T moved to dismiss these price squeezed claims, but the District Court denied their motion and the Court of Appeals affirmed. 
    We hold that the plaintiff may not bring a prize squeezed claim when the defendant I under no obligation under the antitrust laws to deal with the plaintiff in the first place. 
    AT&amp;T's obligation to deal rose only because of the FCC regulation. 
    Now, a price squeeze claim involves a challenge to both the wholesale price and a retial price. 
    That's where the squeeze comes in. 
    Our recent decision in the case called Trinko holds that a firm with no deal, no duty to deal under the antitrust laws like AT&amp;T here does not need to deal under the terms and conditions its rivals would prefer, so that takes care of the allegation about the wholesale price. 
    Now, our decision in the case called Brooke Group takes care of the allegation that AT&amp;T's retail prices were too low. 
    Low retail prices are almost always a good thing, so this Court has allowed anti-trust claim saying that prices are too low only when those prices are below cost and meet other strict requirements. 
    The plaintiffs at this stage of the case do not make any allegations of below price, below cost pricing. 
    Now, when there is no duty to deal a the wholesale level and now below the low cost pricing at the retail level, a firm is not required to price both its wholesale and retail services in a manner that preserves its rival's profit margins. 
    AT&amp;T's to rights do not make a wrong. 
    We're also reluctant to recognize these claims because there's no easy way to define a price squeeze. 
    Both businesses and courts need clear rules to operate effectively, but every price squeeze claim would require a complex economic analysis of pricing practices across multiple markets, and we and other courts are just not that good at that sort of thing. 
    We're likely to get it wrong a lot and everytime we do, the judiciary would be imposing higher prices on consumers. 
    We're very reluctant to get into that sort of business in the first place. 
    The decision of the Court of Appeals is reversed and the case is remanded for further proceedings consistent with this opinion. 
    Justice Breyer has filed an opinion concurring in the judgment which Justices Stevens, Souter and Ginsburg have joined.
