Pleasant Grove City v. Summum
speaker="john_g_roberts_jr" startTime="0.000" stopTime="10.524">
    Chief Justice John G. Roberts, Jr. 
    Justice Alito has our opinion this morning in case 07-665, Pleasant Grove City versus Summum.
speaker="samuel_alito_jr" startTime="10.524" stopTime="121.416">
    Justice Samuel A. Alito, Jr. 
    This case comes to us on writ of certiorari from the Tenth Circuit. 
    Petitioner, Pleasant Grove City, owns and displays a number of monuments and other objects in Pioneer Park, Utah including a Ten Commandments monument. 
    In 2003, respondent, Summum, a religious group asked the city to erect a stone monument displaying its Seven Aphorisms. 
    The petitioner denied the request. 
    In 2005, the respondent sued the City and various officials arguing that because the city had accepted the Ten Commandments monument to Free Speech -- Speech Clause of the First Amendment compels the city to display the Seven Aphorisms monument as well. 
    The District Court denied respondent's request for a preliminary injunction ordering the city to erect respondent's monument. 
    The Court of Appeals reversed and held that the city was required to accept the monument because of public park is a traditional public forum. 
    We conclude that although a park is a traditional public forum for speeches and other transitory expressive acts, the display of a permanent monument in a public park is not a form of expression to which form analysis supplies, instead, the placement of a permanent monument in a public park is best viewed as a form of government speech and is therefore not subject to scrutiny under the Free Speech Clause. 
    For this reason and other set out in an opinion filed today with the clerk, we reverse the decision of the Tenth Circuit. 
    The judgment of the Court is unanimous. 
    Justice Stevens has filed a concurring opinion in which Justice Ginsburg has joined. 
    Justice Scalia has filed a concurring opinion in which Justice Thomas has joined. 
    Justice Souter has filed an opinion concurring in the judgment and Justice Breyer has filed a concurring opinion.
