Ferguson v. City of Charleston
speaker="unknown_speaker" startTime="0.000" stopTime="8.480">
    Unknown Speaker 
    The opinion of the Court in No. 99-936, Ferguson against the City of Charleston will be announced by Justice Stevens.
speaker="john_paul_stevens" startTime="8.480" stopTime="206.628">
    Justice John Paul Stevens 
    This case comes to us from the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit. 
    It raises the question, whether the interest in using the threat of criminal sanctions to deter a pregnant woman from using cocaine can justify a departure from the Fourth Amendment’s general prohibition against warantless and suspicionless searches? 
    A task force made up of local police officials and members of the staff of a public hospital in Charleston, South Carolina, developed a policy for identifying and testing pregnant patients suspected of drug use. 
    Those who tested positive were either arrested or threatened with arrest to induce them to undergo a treatment for drug abuse. 
    Petitioners are former obstetrical patients who were arrested after tested positive for cocaine. 
    They filed this suit challenging the policy’s validity on the theory that the drug tests were unconstitutional searches. 
    After a trial, the District Court instructed the jury that the test were unreasonable unless petitioners had consented to them. 
    The jury found such consent and petitioners appealed arguing that the evidence was not sufficient to support the jury’s finding. 
    The Court of Appeals affirmed, but it did not decide to consent question. 
    It held that even without consent the searches were reasonable as a matter of law, under this Court’s case’s recognizing the special needs may in exceptional circumstances, justify a search policy designed to serve non-law enforcement ends. 
    We granted certiorari, to review the Appellate Court's holding on the "special needs" issue. 
    As the case comes to us, we view the issue as involving a public hospital’s right to conduct tests for the purpose obtaining evidence of a patient’s criminal conduct, without the patient’s informed consent. 
    Our “special needs” cases have involved special programs such as the testing of student athletes and have employed a balancing test weighing the intrusion of the search on the individual’s privacy interest against the special needs that support the program. 
    In each of the prior cases, the special need was one divorced from the state’s general law enforcement interest. 
    Here, however the central feature of the policy was the use of law enforcement to coerce patients in the substance abuse treatment. 
    While the ultimate purpose of the program was to protect the health of pregnant woman and their unborn children. 
    The immediate objective of the searches was to generate evidence for law enforcement purposes. 
    Given that purpose and the extensive involvement of law enforcement officials at every stage of the policy, the case does not fit within the category of special needs identified in our prior cases. 
    Accordingly for reasons stated more fully in an opinion filed with the Clerk of Court, we reverse the judgment of the Court of Appeals and remand for further proceedings. 
    Justice Kennedy has filed an opinion concurring in the judgment; Justice Scalia has filed a dissenting opinion; the Chief Justice and Justice Thomas have joined part two of Justice Scalia’s dissent.
