Cleveland Board of Education v. LaFleur
speaker="warren_e_burger" startTime="0.000" stopTime="21.647">
    Chief Justice Warren E. Burger 
    The judgment and opinion of the Court in 77 -- 72-777, Cleveland Board of Education against Lafleur, along the 72-1129, Cohen against Chesterfield County School Board will be announced by Mr. Justice Stewart.
speaker="potter_stewart" startTime="21.647" stopTime="173.860">
    Justice Potter Stewart 
    The respondents in number 72-777 were female public school teachers employed by the Board of Education of Cleveland, Ohio. 
    The petitioner in number 72-1129 was a female school teacher employed by the School Board of Chesterfield County, Virginia. 
    During the 1970, 1971 school year, each informed her local school board, that she was pregnant. 
    Each was compelled by a mandatory maternity leave rule to quit her job without pay several months before the expected birth of her child. 
    Each thereafter bought suit in a Federal District Court, challenging the constitutional validity of the School Board's mandatory termination rule. 
    The Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit ultimately held unconstitutional, the Cleveland rule, that requires every pregnant school teacher to take a maternity leave without pay, beginning five months before the expected birth of her child. 
    The Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit ultimately upheld the constitutionality of the Chesterfield County rule, that requires a pregnant teacher to leave her job at least four months before the expected birth of her child. 
    We granted certiorari in both cases to resolve this conflict of authority upon an important constitutional issue. 
    For the reasons stated in detail in the written opinion filed today, we hold that the mandatory termination provisions of the Cleveland and Chesterfield County Maternity regulations violate the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment because of their use of unwarranted conclusive presumptions that seriously burden the exercise of protected constitutional liberty. 
    Accordingly the judgment in number 72-777 is affirmed. 
    The judgment in 72-1129 is reversed and the case is remanded to the Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit for further proceedings consistent with the Court's written opinion. 
    Mr. Justice Douglas concurs in the result. 
    Mr. Justice Powell also concurs in the result and he has filed a separate opinion setting out his views. 
    Mr. Justice Rehnquist has filed a dissenting opinion, in which the Chief Justice has joined.
