Lau v. Nichols
speaker="warren_e_burger" startTime="0.000" stopTime="12.195">
    Chief Justice Warren E. Burger 
    Thank you, Mr. Justice Brennan. 
    The judgment and opinion of the Court in 72-6520, Lau against Nichols will be announced by Mr. Justice Douglas.
speaker="william_o_douglas" startTime="12.195" stopTime="155.618">
    Justice William O. Douglas 
    This case is here on certiorari to the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. 
    It is a class action brought by Non-English speaking Chinese student in public schools of San Fransisco, the defendants being the officials who are responsible for the operation of the school system, and they seek relief against what they call the unequal educational opportunities which are alleged to violate the requirements of federal law. 
    There is no specific remedy urged upon us. 
    Teaching English to the students of Chinese ancestry who do not speak the language is one possible choice, giving instruction to this group in Chinese is another. 
    There may still be other remedies. 
    The petitioner asked only that the Board of Education be directed to apply its expertise to the problem and rectify this situation. 
    The District Court denied relief. 
    The Court of Appeals reformed and we reverse the Court of Appeals. 
    We do not reach any question under the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment that has been much vigorously argued. 
    Our decision rests entirely upon the Section 601 of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 which excludes from participation in Federal financial assistance recipients of aid could discriminate against racial groups and as we analyze the regulations done with this act, such a showing has been made. 
    Accordingly we reverse and remand the case for further proceedings. 
    Mr. Justice Stewart has filing an opinion concurring in the result in which the Chief Justice and Mr. Justice Blackmun joined. 
    Mr. Justice White has concurred in the result, and Mr. Justice Blackmun has filed an opinion concurring in the result in which Chief Justice has joined.
speaker="warren_e_burger" startTime="155.618" stopTime="159.624">
    Chief Justice Warren E. Burger 
    Thank you, Mr. Justice Douglas.
