Morton v. Mancari
speaker="warren_e_burger" startTime="0.000" stopTime="7.791">
    Chief Justice Warren E. Burger 
    The disposition of three cases will be announced by Mr. Justice Blackmun.
speaker="harry_a_blackmun" startTime="7.791" stopTime="134.811">
    Justice Harry A. Blackmun 
    The first case is a combination of 73-362 and 73-364; Morton against Mancari, and Amerind against Mancari. 
    This case comes to us from the United States District Court for the District of New Mexico. 
    It involves an apparent conflict between the Indian Reorganization Act of 1934 which accords an employment preference for qualified Indians in the Bureau of Indian Affairs on the one hand and the Equal Employment Opportunity Act of 1972 is amended, which prohibits discrimination in employment on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, or national origin. 
    The 1972 Act contains no reference whatsoever to the pre-existing Indian preference. 
    The appellees, who are the plaintiffs in the litigation, are non-Indian BIA employees. 
    They challenge the Indian preference of the 34 Act as contrary to the anti-discrimination provisions of the 1972 Act, and in addition as violative of the Due Process under the Fifth Amendment. 
    They claimed specifically that the 72 Act with its broad provisions against racial discrimination in employment repealed by implication the Indian preference provisions of the 34 legislation. 
    The three-judge Federal District Court in New Mexico decided the issue in favor of the plaintiffs and held that the Indian preference was impliedly repealed by the later or 1972 Act. 
    We reach the contrary conclusion and for reasons set forth in some detail in the opinion filed today conclude that the Equal Employment Opportunity Act did not repeal the Indian preference, and that in addition, the preference itself does not violate the Due Process clause of the Fifth Amendment. 
    Accordingly, the judgment of the District Court is reversed and the case is remanded for further proceedings consistent with the opinion as filed.
