Davis v. United States
speaker="warren_e_burger" startTime="0.000" stopTime="12.016">
    Chief Justice Warren E. Burger 
    Thank you Mr. Justice White. 
    The judgment and opinion of the in 72-1454, Davis against the United States will be announced by Mr. Justice Stewart.
speaker="potter_stewart" startTime="12.016" stopTime="147.593">
    Justice Potter Stewart 
    This is a case that is here by way of grant of a petition for a writ of certiorari to the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. 
    The petitioner Joseph Anthony Davis was convicted in a Federal District Court in California for violating a provision of the Selective Service Act, and his conviction was thereafter affirmed by the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. 
    Soon thereafter, in another very similar case, the Court of Appeals reversed a Selective Service Act conviction on the ground that the induction order on which that conviction was based was not authorized by the law. 
    The petitioner Davis then brought this proceeding under Section 2255 of Title 28 of the United States Code collaterally attacking his conviction upon the ground that under the law of this circuit has changed since the affirmance of his conviction. 
    His induction order had been unauthorized and that his conviction was therefore invalid. 
    The District Court denied relief and the Court of Appeals affirmed without considering the merits of his claim on the ground that its previous decision on his direct appeal or as the law of the case and that the Court would not therefore consider his claim that there had subsequently been a change in a law of the circuit which made his conviction invalid. 
    For the reasons set out in some detail in the Court’s written opinion today, we hold that the Court of Appeals was in error in holding that the so-called law of the case precluded Davis from securing relief under Section 2255 on the basis of an intervening change in law. 
    We further hold that the issue that Davis raises is cognitable in a proceeding under Section 2255 of Title 28 of the United States Code. 
    Mr. Justice Powell has filed a separate opinion concurring in part and dissenting in part and Mr. Justice Rehnquist has filed a dissenting opinion.
speaker="warren_e_burger" startTime="147.593" stopTime="149.116">
    Chief Justice Warren E. Burger 
    Thank you Mr. Justice Stewart.
