American Pipe &amp; Construction Company v. Utah
speaker="warren_e_burger" startTime="0.000" stopTime="13.532">
    Chief Justice Warren E. Burger 
    The judgment and opinion of the Court in number 72-1195, American Pipe &amp; Construction Company against Utah will be announced by Mr. Justice Stewart.
speaker="potter_stewart" startTime="13.532" stopTime="157.400">
    Justice Potter Stewart 
    This case is here on writ of certiorari to the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. 
    The case involves an aspect of the relationship between a statute of limitations and the provisions of Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 23, regulating class actions in the Federal Courts. 
    The question presented is a rather technical one and the history of the litigation in which the question arises is quite complex. 
    So, that this case is not the one in which a lengthy oral announcement is appropriate. 
    Suffice it to say that the State of Utah brought an antitrust action against the petitioners 11 days before the action would have been barred by the applicable statute of limitations. 
    The suit was brought as a class action. 
    Several weeks later the petitioners filed a motion for an order that the suit could not be maintained as the class action. 
    The District Court subsequently granted this motion upon the ground that the class was not so numerous that joinder of all of members, as named plaintiffs, would be impractical. 
    Eight days after entry of this order, several members of the punitive class sought to intervene as plaintiffs in Utah’s suit. 
    The District Court denied the motion to intervene upon the ground that they would be, intervenor’s claims, were now barred by the applicable statute of limitations. 
    The Court of Appeals reversed this judgment. 
    For the reasons set out at some lengths in the written opinion filed today, we affirm the judgment of the Court of Appeals. 
    We hold that in the circumstances of this case, from the date Utah’s suit was filed until the date of the District Court’s order holding that a class suit was inappropriate, the statute of limitations was told as to members of the punitive class. 
    Since they sought to intervene eight days after the District Court’s order, and since there were 11 days yet to run at the time of the order, their motion to intervene was timely. 
    Accordingly, the judgment of the Court of Appeals of the Ninth Circuit is affirmed. 
    Mr. Justice Blackmun, while joining the opinion of the Court has filed a concurring opinion.
speaker="warren_e_burger" startTime="157.400" stopTime="158.500">
    Chief Justice Warren E. Burger 
    Thank you.
