Gerstein v. Pugh
speaker="warren_e_burger" startTime="0.000" stopTime="9.772">
    Chief Justice Warren E. Burger 
    The judgment and opinion of the court in No. 73-477, Gerstein against Pugh will be announced by Mr. Justice Powell.
speaker="lewis_f_powell_jr" startTime="9.772" stopTime="151.784">
    Justice Lewis F. Powell, Jr. 
    This case involves a Florida procedure where an arrest is made without a warrant. 
    The suspect may then be charged upon information about a prosecuting attorney and held in jail pending the other steps in a criminal process. 
    These steps usually include a bail hearing, the arraignment and the trial itself. 
    We hold today that the information filed by the prosecutor standing alone is not sufficient to justify detention pending trial. 
    Rather, the Fourth Amendment requires a fair and reliable determination of probable cause as a condition to any significant pretrial restraint on liberty. 
    Moreover, this determination must be made by a judicial officer promptly following arrest. 
    But we do not however accept respondent's argument that a full adversary hearing with counsel, confrontation and cross-examination of witnesses is required by the constitution at this stage. 
    The determination of probable cause for detention is merely the first step in the elaborate criminal justice system designed to safeguard the rights of those accused of criminal conduct. 
    At this initial stage we think a mini-trial is not required by the constitution and indeed is not necessarily in the interest of either the suspect or society. 
    Accordingly and for the reasons more fully set forth in our opinion filed today we affirm in part and reverse in part the decision in this case by the Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. 
    Mr. Justice Stewart has filed an opinion concurring in parts 1 and 2 of the Court's opinion and concurring in other respects as to parts 3 and 4. 
    Mr. Justice Douglas, Mr. Justice Brennan, and Mr. Justice Marshall have joined him.
speaker="warren_e_burger" startTime="151.784" stopTime="153.393">
    Chief Justice Warren E. Burger 
    Thank you Mr. Justice Powell.
