Pernell v. Southall Realty
speaker="william_o_douglas" startTime="0.000" stopTime="13.459">
    Justice William O. Douglas 
    The opinion for the Court will be in 72-6041, Pernell versus Southall Realty will be announced by Mr. Justice Marshall.
speaker="thurgood_marshall" startTime="13.459" stopTime="118.676">
    Justice Thurgood Marshall 
    This case is here on certiorari to the District of Columbia Court of Appeals. 
    The question presented is whether the Seventh Amendment guarantees the right of trial by jury in civil actions brought in District of Columbia for the recovery of possession of real properties. 
    Few months after renting petitioner house, respondent sought to evict him for non-payment of his rent. 
    Petitioner reclaimed he was entitled to withhold the rent because the premises were not in compliance with certain District of Columbia housing regulations. 
    He also claimed that respondent had agreed to waive several months rent return for repairs. 
    Petitioner requested a jury trial to resolve the factual questions raised by these pleadings. 
    The trail judge however refused the jury trial and entered judgment against petitioner and the Court of Appeals affirmed, holding that a jury trial was not constitutionally required. 
    In an opinion filed with the clerk today, we find that examining a great deal of historical materials and conclude that the right to recover possession of real property was a right as obtained and protected by the courts of the common law at the time the Seventh Amendment was adopted. 
    In all of the causes of action developed in common law for the recovery of real property, the parties were entitled to a jury trial. 
    We, therefore hold that petitioner was entitled under the Seventh Amendment to a jury trial in this eviction suit. 
    The judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed and the case is remanded for further proceeding consistent with this opinion. 
    The Chief Justice and Mr. Justice Douglas concurred in the result.
