Erznoznik v. City of Jacksonville
speaker="warren_e_burger" startTime="0.000" stopTime="19.633">
    Chief Justice Warren E. Burger 
    The judgment and opinion of the Court in No. 73-1942, Erznoznik against Jacksonville -- the City of Jacksonville, and 74-634, United States against Nobles will each be announced by Mr. Justice Powell.
speaker="lewis_f_powell_jr" startTime="19.633" stopTime="143.913">
    Justice Lewis F. Powell, Jr. 
    A Jacksonville, Florida ordinance, directed at move in -- at drive-in movie theaters prohibits the exhibition of films which contain nudity. 
    The ordinance was sustained by the Florida courts and came to us on appeal. 
    As we conclude that the ordinance infringes First Amendment rights, we reverse the decision of the Florida court. 
    This is an obscene -- this is not an obscenity ordinance as it proscribes the showing of any nudity however innocent or educational. 
    It nevertheless was depended on three grounds. 
    One, as preventing offense to persons on public streets, two, as protecting children from scenes of nudity, and three, as a traffic measure. 
    In our view, the ordinance is both overbroad and underinclusive when tested against its specified purposes. 
    The intrusion on the privacy of passersby is limited. 
    The legitimate state interest in protecting children from obscenity is not furthered and if designed as a traffic measure, many things such as scenes of horror and violence are more likely to distract than many of the fleeting shots of nudity that abide by this ordinance. 
    In sum, although a city or a state has a legitimate interest that would support a non-discriminatory ordinance regulating drive-in theaters this ordinance unduly infringes upon First Amendment rights with little prospect of furthering any of the legitimate state interest. 
    Mr. Justice Douglas filed a concurring opinion. 
    The Chief Justice filed a dissenting opinion in which Mr. Justice Rehnquist joined. 
    Mr. Justice White also filed a dissenting opinion.
