Alfred Dunhill Of London, Inc. v. Cuba
speaker="warren_e_burger" startTime="0.000" stopTime="11.411">
    Chief Justice Warren E. Burger 
    The judgment and opinion of the Court in 73-1288, Alfred Dunhill of London against the Republic of Cuba will be announced by Mr. Justice White.
speaker="byron_r_white" startTime="11.411" stopTime="113.954">
    Justice Byron R. White 
    This case, which is here on certiorari to the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, arises out of the 1960 expropriation of certain Cuban cigar businesses by the Republic Cuba, and their operations thereafter by government representatives called interventors. 
    At the time of seizure, petitioner Alfred Dunhill Incorporated and other american of Cuban cigars owed various amounts to the Cuban companies for cigars purchased prior to the seizure. 
    Dunhill paid the sum it owed to interventors, but it was later held that this money belong to the prior owner rather than to interventors. 
    The District Court accordingly held Dunhill entitled to recover the sum out of the amounts owing for cigars purchased after intervention, and to an affirmative judgment for any access, i.e., for any amount not recovered by way of set-off. 
    The Court of Appeals affirmed, except with respect to the affirmative judgment, which it reversed on the grounds that the sum, mistakenly paid by Dunhill, had been the subject of an act of state, and that the Republic of Cuba was therefore not open to judgment in the courts of the United States. 
    We granted certiorari and in an opinion filed today, we hold that no act of state was proved in the courts below with respect to the funds paid by Dunhill for cigars purchased prior to the expropriation. 
    The judgment of the Court of Appeals is accordingly reversed. 
    Mr. Justice Powell has filed a concurring opinion, and Mr. Justice Stevens, a statement agreeing with parts one and two of the filed opinion. 
    Mr. Justice Marshall has filed a dissenting opinion. 
    He is joined by Justices Brennan, Stewart, and Blackmun.
speaker="warren_e_burger" startTime="113.954" stopTime="115.921">
    Chief Justice Warren E. Burger 
    Thank you, Mr. Justice White.
