Guidry v. Sheet Metal Workers National Pension Fund
speaker="william_h_rehnquist" startTime="0.000" stopTime="8.968">
    Chief Justice Rehnquist 
    The opinion of the Court in No. 88-1105, Guidry versus Sheet Metal Workers National Pension Fund will be announced by Justice Blackmun. 
   
   
   
   Announcement of Justice Blackmun
speaker="harry_a_blackmun" startTime="8.968" stopTime="129.933">
    Justice Harry A. Blackmun 
    The petitioner, Robert Guidry, is a former official of the respondent, Union, and a former trustee of the Union’s pension plan. 
    He pleaded guilty to embezzling funds from the Union and has been incarcerated. 
    His Union employment, however, made him eligible for benefits from three pension funds. 
    Guidry filed suit in Federal Court against the other two plans when they concluded that he had forfeited his rights to benefits because of his criminal activity. 
    His own Union intervened, and it and Guidry stipulated to the entry of judgment in the Union’s favor. 
    The District Court, however, rejected the contention that Guidry had forfeited his right to benefits. 
    It imposed a constructive trust in the Union’s favor on Guidry’s pension benefits. 
    In doing this, the court concluded that a narrow exception to the Employment Retirement Income Security Act was appropriate where the Union and the member’s pension plans were damaged. 
    The Tenth Circuit affirmed. 
    In an opinion filed today, we reverse that judgment. 
    We hold that the constructive trust violated the statute’s prohibition on assignment or alienation of pension benefits. 
    A constructive trust remedy is prohibited unless some exception to the general statutory ban is applicable. 
    It is also inappropriate, we feel, to approve any generalized equitable exception to ERISA’s anti-alienation provision. 
    That is a task for Congress, not the courts. 
    This decision is unanimous except that Justice Marshall does not join part 2C of the opinion.
