Carbon Fuel Company v. United Mine Workers of America
speaker="warren_e_burger" startTime="0.000" stopTime="10.909">
    Chief Justice Warren E. Burger 
    The judgment and opinion of the Court in Number 78-1183, Carbon Fuel Company against United Mine Workers of America will be announced by Mr. Justice Brennan.
speaker="william_j_brennan_jr" startTime="10.909" stopTime="143.865">
    Justice William J. Brennan, Jr. 
    This case is here on the Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit. 
    It's a suit against an internation union, United Mine Workers of America against District 17, a regional subdivision of the international and against three local mine workers unions. 
    The suit seeks damages suffered by the petitioner, Carbon Fuel Company, resulting from some 50 unauthorized or wildcat strikes engaged in by the local unions of Carbon Fuel's several coal mines in West Virginia. 
    A jury awarded separate verdicts for damages against all of the defendants. 
    The Court of Appeals modified and as modified, affirmed the verdicts against the local unions, but the Court set aside the awards against the international union and District 17, and remanded to the trial court with direction to dismiss the case against those defendants. 
    The Court of Appeals held that neither in law nor by implication from the terms of the collective-bargaining agreement between Carbon Fuel and the international, was there any duty on the part of the international or District 17, which Carbon Fuel contended, to use all reasonable means available to them to prevent the wildcat strikes or bring about their termination. 
    Rather, the Court of Appeals held that liability of those defendants could be found only upon evidence that the international and or the district instigated, supported, ratified or encouraged the strikes since Carbon Fuel had preferred -- proffered no such evidence. 
    The verdicts against the international and District 17, the Court of Appeals could not stand. We agree and for reasons stated in the opinion filed with the clerk affirm the judgment of the Court of Appeals.
speaker="warren_e_burger" startTime="143.865" stopTime="146.218">
    Chief Justice Warren E. Burger 
    Thank you Mr. Justice Brennan.
