Andrus v. Allard
speaker="warren_e_burger" startTime="0.000" stopTime="8.162">
    Chief Justice Warren E. Burger 
    The judgment and opinion of the Court in Andrus, the Secretary of Interior against Allard will be announced by Mr. Justice Brennan.
speaker="william_j_brennan_jr" startTime="8.162" stopTime="137.329">
    Justice William J. Brennan, Jr. 
    This case is here on appeal from the United States District Court for the District of Colorado. 
    The Secretary of Interior has implemented the Eagle Protection Act and the Migratory Bird Treaty Act with regulations that prohibit commercial transactions with respect to migratory birds and their parts including a prohibition of commercial transactions in parts of birds legally killed before the birds came under the protection of the Acts. 
    This suit was brought by dealers and Indian artifacts partly composed of feathers obtained prior to the effective dates of the Acts. 
    And the dealers sought declaratory and injunctive relief alleging that the Acts cannot be interpreted to authorize regulations that forbid the sale of artifacts insofar as the constituent bird parts were obtained prior to the effective dates of the Acts and that if the regulations do apply to such property, the regulations effect the taking without just compensation in violation of the Fifth Amendment. 
    And the District Court granted the relief sought holding that the Acts were to be interpreted as not applicable to preexisting legally obtained bird parts and that therefore the regulations were void as unauthorized extensions of the Acts and were violative of appellee's Fifth Amendment rights. 
    We reverse. 
    We hold that both Acts contemplate regulatory prohibition of commerce in the parts of protected birds without regard to when those birds were originally taken. 
    And we hold further that -- so construed the Acts and the regulations do not effect a taking in violation of the Fifth Amendment. 
    Our reasons are set forth at greater length in the opinion filed with the clerk. 
    The Chief Justice concurs in the judgment.
speaker="warren_e_burger" startTime="137.329" stopTime="139.279">
    Chief Justice Warren E. Burger 
    Thank you Mr. Justice Brennan.
