Carlson, v. Green
speaker="warren_e_burger" startTime="0.000" stopTime="12.104">
    Chief Justice Warren E. Burger 
    The judgment and opinion in Number 1261, Carlson the Director of Federal Prisons against Green will be announced by Mr. Justice Brennan.
speaker="william_j_brennan_jr" startTime="12.104" stopTime="227.953">
    Justice William J. Brennan, Jr. 
    This case is here from the Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit. 
    Respondent's son died in a federal prison, allegedly from injuries caused by federal prison officials in violation of his son's due process, equal protection and Eighth Amendment's rights. 
    The respondent mother sued the prison officials, seeking compensatory and punitive damages on behalf of her son's state for the constitutional violations. 
    Nine years ago, in a case called Bivens versus Federal Agents, this Court held that allegations of such constitutional violations causing injury give rise to a direct cause of action for damages against the federal officials involved. 
    However, it also happens that the allegations give rise to a cause of action against the United States itself under a 1971 Amendment to the Federal Tort Claims Act. 
    And the Government argues in this case that in that situation, no Bivens action directly under the Constitution against the federal officials should be permitted. 
    We reject that argument. 
    Agreeing with the Court of Appeals, an Eighth Amendment violation was pleaded by the respondent, and that a cause of action was stated under Bivens, we hold that the legislative history of the 1974 Amendment to the Tort Claims Act makes it crystal clear that Congress views that Tort Claims Act and the Bivens action as parallel complementary causes of action. 
    In other words, Congress contemplated that victims of the kind of intentional wrong doing alleged in this complaint shall have an action under the Tort Claims Act against the United States and also a Bivens action against the individual officials alleged to have infringed their constitutional rights. 
    There's a second question in the case, namely is the matter of the survival of respondent's Bivens action to be decided by reference to state law here, Indiana law. 
    The Government concedes that federal law governs that argues that we should fashion a federal rule of survivorship that incorporates the survivorship laws of a forum state here Indiana. 
    And under Indiana law, the action would abate and not survive and could not be maintained. 
    We reject the suggestion. 
    We hold that only a uniform federal rule of survivorship was compatible with a goal of deterring federal officials from infringing federal constitutional rights and the manner alleged in respondent's complaint. 
    We therefore agree with and affirm the holding of the Court of Appeals that "whenever as in this case, the relevants States survival statute would abate a Bivens type action brought against defendants whose conduct results in death, the federal common law allows survival of the action." 
    Mr. Justice Powell joined by Mr. Justice Stewart has filed an opinion concurring in the judgment. 
    The Chief Justice and Mr. Justice Rehnquist dissent and each has filed a dissenting opinion.
speaker="warren_e_burger" startTime="227.953" stopTime="229.823">
    Chief Justice Warren E. Burger 
    Thank you, Mr. Justice Brennan.
