Chiarella v. United States
speaker="warren_e_burger" startTime="0.000" stopTime="7.695">
    Chief Justice Warren E. Burger 
    The judgment and opinion in Chiarella against the United States will be announced by Mr. Justice Powell.
speaker="lewis_f_powell_jr" startTime="7.695" stopTime="183.258">
    Justice Lewis F. Powell, Jr. 
    This case is here on certiorari to the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. 
    Petitioner, an employee of a financial printing firm in New York, was convicted in a criminal prosecution of violating Section 10 (b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b-5 adopted pursuant to that Act. 
    His conviction was affirmed by the Second Circuit. 
    As an employee of a printing firm, he had access to nonpublic information as to takeover bids that were to be made to stockholders of target corporations. 
    Petitioner used that information to purchase stock in target companies. 
    He made these purchases through stock exchanges but did not disclose the nonpublic information to the sellers of the stock. 
    In this way, he made substantial profits. 
    The question in this case is whether petitioner's failure to disclose the nonpublic information constituted a fraud within the meaning of Section 10 (b). 
    The answer to this question turns on whether petitioner owed a duty to the sellers from whom he purchased. 
    For reasons stated in the opinion of the Court filed today, we hold that a duty to disclose under this statute does not arise from the mere possession of nonpublic market information. 
    It also was argued here that petitioner breached a duty to the acquiring corporation, that is the corporation that planned to make the takeover bids, but this theory was not presented to the trial jury and accordingly, we do not decide whether or not such a duty exist. 
    Section 10 (b) of the Act is drawn in quite general terms. 
    This is a criminal prosecution and nothing in the legislative history suggests a congressional intent to create a duty and consequent criminal liability upon persons such as petitioner who are not corporate insiders, not fiduciaries and not persons in whom the sellers had placed their trust or confidence. 
    Accordingly, we reversed the judgment of the Court of Appeals. 
    Mr. Justice Stevens has filed a concurring opinion. 
    Mr. Justice Brennan concurs in the judgment. 
    The Chief Justice has filed a dissenting opinion. 
    Mr. Justice Blackmun, with whom Mr. Justice Marshall joins, also has filed a dissenting opinion.
speaker="warren_e_burger" startTime="183.258" stopTime="185.125">
    Chief Justice Warren E. Burger 
    Thank you, Mr. Justice Powell.
